Simon Wellesley-Miller: And
Simon Wellesley-Miller: there we go. What's that saying? Recording in and prior to that, what about 5 years in police and children's social care doing child protection data and bits and pieces around that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So yeah, personally, really reading, really, really, really passionate about getting away from Kpis and using things like operational research and date, and to improve our services.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: My day's science journey started. I think it's providing some data for Shaun for a dementia model he was doing, and then we got chatting. Then I think, I went on, excel course with Dan to do some very basic queue, modeling and geographic analysis again, all in excel with amazing, amazing nested if match statements that went on for about 500 miles long.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which was, which was fun, I i'll start to dig out that training again. It's support. For some reason they don't do that anymore. But anyway, and so going on, that was really really fortunate to get into the second Hsa.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We're really really open by my eyes, much much further into sort of operational research, and and that science. And last year I I completed my masters in healthcare day science at the University. So yeah, really, really keen on on data, science and all the cool stuff. And hopefully you guys are, too.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I've been using our for about 3 or 4 years now, very much coming from sort of a a, a sequel and excel background.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I use price for a fair bit, mostly with the Hsm. A. And Msc. But my day to day love is definitely within our for sort of just general operational reporting, especially
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if you're still coming from that sequel, excel background, it's it's
Simon Wellesley-Miller: probably makes a little bit more sense than than python. But obviously you guys are all python is so where we I spray. You probably got time for your icebreakers. But yeah, if you can just give us the long number on your credit card, your mother's maiden name and the free figures on the back. That'd be a good little icebreaker to put in the chat
other than that. If you could put in the chat
Simon Wellesley-Miller: very briefly, Your current knowledge of our any of the scripting languages which i'm assuming most of you is quite some. But if you have any excel. Also we'll see cool advanced itself, etc., and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: possibly, although this probably might be for sort of later on, if there's any sort of specific areas of things you got to us to cover. But I think we're going to go over that more at the end of the session, because I think the next session we can make it a little bit more hopefully. Get a bit more time to be a bit more fluid around that sort of outputs and what we will. What to do
Simon Wellesley-Miller: can't guarantee that we can so obviously cover everything within 2 days. But hopefully, maybe I will sign post you where to get additional support or resources, or or further training, if you need him.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We've got quite a packed itinerary for you, but we will take comfort. Breaks throughout. This is very much going to be so hand on teaching along a cod long training.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There will be gonna be some elements where we're sort of code together. Copy what's on the screen, and you know hopefully an opportunity that for you to sort of test out what you've learned as as we go on. So, you know. Just try to make sure you've got some free access to sort of 2 screens, one showing what's what's going on there on when I share my screen and obviously your own screen.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I will try to keep an eye on the the chat. I think I have actually got that my screen, so I can see that coming up. That's probably gonna be the preferred method of shouting at me, or the alternative method of shouting me is literally shouting at me. I didn't assume you guys can come off me and just shout.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: otherwise I will just wobble on for hours and hours and hours. So yeah, do, shouts You put stuff in the chat. I think I can still see it whizzing by.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But yeah, and if there's anything really really urgent, then. Yeah, please literally do shout.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So. Yeah. As I said, this is, I have no hands on, sort of as you go along. Many of the lessons that build on top of each other. So if your code is doesn't work or you get stuck.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: please please shout.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: because you know we don't want to be sort of left behind, and then the next bit is not going to work, and in the next bit, so just make sure you are up up to up to speed at all times. If you are really really stuck, then, you know, be prepared to sort of share your screen, and we can. We can have a look at what's wrong, and hopefully as a collective, see, see what's happened.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Obviously everybody learns from mistakes. So if everybody makes lots of mistakes, we can all share our mistakes and learn from each other, which obviously improves all of our knowledge. So please make lots of mistakes, and please share them with everybody else that we no doubt lots of common common things.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: You guys have obviously the loads of python. So at least you hopefully, you've kind of got over a little bit of that hurdle around case sensitivity. I know. When I started learning sort of programming languages I the python, and especially coming from a sequel and excel background. Microsoft teaches you
Simon Wellesley-Miller: terrible habits of the case sensitivity, and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: hopefully that won't be your biggest hurdle. But I know it. It does kick people quite severely, especially when when they're starting, and that's probably all I've got to say as an introduction, so
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we will be using our studio cloud. I will just pop a link to that in the chat, which is.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if you haven't already. Please
Simon Wellesley-Miller: let's see.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: please, log in, if you can. Essentially, all you need is a Google account, and you should be able to log in as a as a free. User we're not going to be using any sort of collective thing. We're all gonna be using our own accounts. I we're gonna be setting up as we go, just to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to make sure what what's what? If anybody is using their own personal downloaded version of our studio, there will be a few bits that are tweaked and a slightly different for you, but I will assume that you're using the cloud version. It just means that we're all using exactly the same version.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: because I know, especially if You' using your Nhs computer, then. So version control. And who's using what becomes really, really, really quite a challenge, as I'm: Sure, you've all encountered. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: out further ado, let me share my screen, which is that one there isn't it. and I want to show
Simon Wellesley-Miller: down there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I got it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that'd be good
Simon Wellesley-Miller: right. Say. that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that should be showing. Okay, so introduction to, and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that's a general agenda. This isn't exactly the agenda we're going to be following. We're going to be tweaking that so you know that one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So course aims definitely. I just show you some of the possibilities, show you how it sort of all works, and hopefully give you enough that you can then go on and find some further further information. If you want to carry on doing some.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so what can I do? It can do some useful, elegant graphics and sort of
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so various different ways. And there's some really really nice plotting modules. And we're gonna be sort of building up some so quite basic blocks today. But obviously we will try to make those a little bit more interesting. It can be sort of beautiful maps and some of heat, maps, etc.,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: obviously doing scripting languages, is all about sort of collaboration definitely about reproducibility. And there's also sort of the on markdown. So I've got this lovely interface with our mark down and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: quarter, which allows you to sort of create your analysis a little bit like a due point to notebook. But then to actually produce a a a final output which is got all your sort of charts and tables. They can be sort of interactive, and you can still have drill downs, etc.,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and they can then sort of go out as an interactive standalone documents. So you can create sort of really really nice reports and sort of send those over to us as as a standalone interactive document, which is a really really powerful thing to be able to do to sort of pull in on your data. Do we wrangling, create all these and create a a report all in one sort of reproducible way.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Obviously, lots of so automated reports. There are sort of a plugins for sort of dashboards, and you can sort of use dashboards, and you can use shiny to make so much more sort of interactive dashboards link up to service and have a more sort of traditional dashboardy thing, if that's what you wish to do.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And there's a couple of the very, very basic examples there you can link. Your are up to sequel.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: obviously mileage, and that varies depending on where you are, and how your specific type of warehouses are set up. But you can link directly through to Csql database, which again makes it that sort of really nice one stop shop
Simon Wellesley-Miller: inclusive. There is a fantastic our community.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Obviously we are part of the Nhs. Our community, which is a very much a community based around within pretty much Nhs. So push promoting that. And obviously there's things such as a conference, etc., and a a very active slack channel.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: The course philosophy. I remember this lovely cartoon when we were doing our train, the trainer trying to work out what this means, but what we are trying to say is, we're not going to go. We're not going to start the basics, and then, you know, go right through and build your sports car, and everything in between is not going to be useful. So we're not going to be ending our day with them with a sports car.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What we're gonna do is build up, and have already really sort of modular way, bit by bit. But hopefully, as we go along our journey, each little stage of our journey is actually quite useful, and we'll help us go that little bit further and and and faster. So again, that's a really really useful thing. So course philosophy.
Chalk, Daniel: So I
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, hello! Sorry just sergei.so that something come up the chat. Is there any way that you can mute your team certifications? I think a couple of people.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: How do you don't ask me? That's no just just closing it, because if we recognize that you're on another meeting
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I put on, do not just that that might help. My yeah. People have said, do not disturb, apparently. That's I'm doing that now.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry it's
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so. Now where is it?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: No, it's all right. I'll get back to teams in a minute. Sorry about that. Course. We'll say very relaxed and informal. That's me. All the slides, code, etc., are sort of going to be available. Let's put that on a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: do not disturb
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Bang
Simon Wellesley-Miller: right hopefully. That will show up.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and just Gemini, as you say, it's You've had lots of days in Python, and i'm sure you'll sort of have lots of experience in that. Obviously there's going to be a very limited to what we can get through in in a couple of days.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So let's begin. So this are an our studio.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: obviously our programming language. Our studio is so for application. So sits around that no doubt you guys have to be using. I don't know what you've been using actually, either Vs code or or spider or something like that. So obviously you've got your You've got your You've got your call language and obviously you've got a nice gui. That sort of sits around it and does nice things, or if you've been using 2 python, 8 books, etc. So us you day it's just there to sort of really really help your
Simon Wellesley-Miller: your your primary series. So our is your sort of stripped down rule piece of a a thing, whereas our studio is much more. We got your airbags, and you've got your satin, and you've got your indicators and lots of really nice things to sort of help. Make your driving experience that a little bit nicer.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So generally we're gonna be using our. So we don't need to think about so far as a separate thing.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that's that. So let's get into our studio. so we should have I' it cloud.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I should be able to make that. Now louder, larger. That's the word.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and Let's log in.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I'm gonna look in the giggle. So I've already called Giggle accounts.
That's me there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Please shout if there is any problem so far
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it will come up with a workspace. Yours will probably be empty, mindful of mess.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So once you get to that stage you want to click up here where it says new project.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I give you minutes for people to catch up.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that was simply going into our posit
Simon Wellesley-Miller: hopefully. You've already got an account, and you just log in with your Google credentials
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and where you go, and it should bring you to a workspace. And yours is probably here all empty, and I definitely need to get rid of some of my
Simon Wellesley-Miller: please shout if anybody's got any trouble at that stage.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Nope. I'm not
Simon Wellesley-Miller: cool.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Actually. Oh, yeah, Look at that. I can put my chat somewhere else.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Say, clever
Simon Wellesley-Miller: is where is it on Github? Is it there now? Yes, it is, and i'll I'll put the link in at the break. So, hey, hopefully, everybody is there. So if you go on to New Project.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it will give you a couple of options, and we want the our studio project. There is an option to start a 2 price project if we wish they wished, and you can use our studio.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so i'll see you being the gui you can use. I'll shoot you to do pythony stuff if you like the the and also you can sort of Link Directory to a Github repository and sort of build stuff for there. But what we are going to do is a new project.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that should start loading and deploying.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it should do something very shortly. There we go.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if anybody's used spider before it's very similar to Spider, and it's a initial look
Simon Wellesley-Miller: or a little bit like, yeah, it's more like spider than it is for.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So there we go, right.
This one
Simon Wellesley-Miller: say we've got Austria.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We've got several different bits. We've got a console, and where we can just basically it's a straight console window. 3 to our. So we can do some very, very basics. We can do
Simon Wellesley-Miller: one plus one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I will use this amazing potential to tell us the answer to such things. I do believe it is traditional to do a print.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I well.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we get a hello world.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Everybody got a anybody not got to. Hello, World Stage
that's good.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that's very much about. We sort of put a command, and it comes out straight away and comes up with an answer. obviously. And i'm sure you guys are way beyond me that actually, we don't want to write
Simon Wellesley-Miller: our code line by line. We wouldn't like we. We want to make ourselves a nice script that will run through, and obviously have a nice bit of reproducible script that we can then share with other people. So we want to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: choose create an our script. So up here on the top right hand side. Actually, just before we start
Simon Wellesley-Miller: going much further, i'm just gonna make my stuff a little bit bigger for you.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Where are we?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay? So I hope that's a little bigger. But up here there's a little blue. I'm sorry
Simon Wellesley-Miller: color blind green, plus. which says new file. If we click on that one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it gives us various different options of different files that we can create, and what we want to create is an script. So it does give us a various options. I just sort of read for this quickly. There's a quarter document or quartet presentation.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's if we want to create a report which basically that's where I was talking about. So we'll create that sort of standalone type report which you can then sort of share, and you can either set in that as a document, or you can create some presentations which again, sort of all interactive. And you can change through the training slides which i'm. I'm. Sort of showing at the moment. Those are all written in in so far quarto and a mark found to sort of flick through them and see what's going on there. You can use it in our notebook, which is pretty much a version of t pronate book.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: You can use our mock down, and there's various other bits and pieces, and we can obviously do different price pipes and scripts, and all those other different bits and pieces, but we want the top one, which is a very, very basic.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Our script. You can also could dress, control all shift, and and as a shortcut and create us a
script.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So this is the editor. This is the console.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So now we can do one plus one. and press enter. and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: seemingly nothing happens, however, if we want to actually send that line to the the console, we can either press.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: control and enter, and it will run that script, or we can sort of highlight over where we want to go, and we can do our run.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that will also run our script.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I think it works in a very similar way to Spider. I can't remember what Vs. Co. Does, but I think it's for all very, very similar, so i'm sure you very, very used to sort of running script
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in in that way.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So obviously the most important command that you're gonna learn is the hash command, which is how we write comments. So this is a comment.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Obviously comments are not evaluated when you run your code they are there. A. To just have a an idea of what's going on, and they're also there for future you to reach back when you come back to your code to try to work out what you've done.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I know for a fact that future Simon is a complete idiot. So I have to write him really, really well documented code
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to try to explain what i'm doing, because when he reads back he's like, what if he was past Simon down here? He thinks past time is in as yet. But you know that's that' me now, and that all gets really really confusing. Anyway.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Teacher Simon is definitely an idiot, so I have to write him lots and lots and lots of comments about what's going on, and I would fully recommend that commenting is free and doesn't. Pick up any a thing, and it's just a a fantastic thing to do. So just comment your code as as much as you possibly can.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Nobody is going to go. Oh, no, your code was far too, commented, and told me far too much of exactly what was going on. You know that's never going to be a thing. So comment your code as as best you can is really really good advice.
So we've got our editor here where we're writing our script, and we've also got a console.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Just a few things that we are going to change. So if we go back into our tools
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and global options.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: there's a couple of bits and pieces that are worth noting.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So one of which is our workspace, which is this one here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So those are very useful, but also very dangerous thing. This is last shoot you. So when you save your what it can do is can take a snapshot of your environment as it is.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and save it, as is, which means any data that you've loaded, any variables that you've created. All of that is saved is as a sort of a snapshot, which is
Simon Wellesley-Miller: kind of really useful when you want to sort of, save where you are, and then come back to the next day. You don't have to sort of reload in all your data, etc. It's all safe within this environment, and you can just carry on exactly from where you are.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: The danger of that is, and especially if you're doing that sort of more sort of tweaky trade when you're doing lots of tests and trying to work out when you got something really finicky, and You're kind of trying to test something, and you come out with Look, you start making all your
Simon Wellesley-Miller: test variables just to I've got to try to do it this way. So this is my way of doing it. Version 10, that didn't work version 2 or that didn't work version 3. It was close, but it's in the wrong format, and you create a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: This could just be me. But you then create this like great big, long list of random variables until you finally get to the one that's kind of done the all the all the table that you want, and it's not. Yeah, that one's worked fabulous.
and then i'll build something else off on top of that and on top of that. And then you realize that actually you've created all these sort of temporary bits and pieces that actually Aren't included in your script. You've just been. I don't know, messing it out with things. And then when you come back to rerun the entire script.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It won't work, whereas if you've got it saved in the workspace it, it does so. It's kind of good practice to click on that and turn off that saving.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It does mean that you have to load in your data sets each and every time. But it just means that each and every time you are working fresh, and it's running through your code. And if there's any issues in your code
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you'll not still continue where you've sort of broken something previously. I say, I've I've done it many a time when I've created a sort of a temporary test version of a a of a function. It's what I' i'm now copy that into my main code and just copied it wrong. And and the one does something weird. But yeah, anyway.
The other thing that to do is the appearance
Simon Wellesley-Miller: as well as I said. I've changed my font size there to be bigger. Some people like sort of dark.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: various different themes, etc. If you wanna sort of a more dark theme, or or whatever obviously choose something that makes makes it more comfortable for you
Simon Wellesley-Miller: personally, especially when I was doing a lot of our, and I was doing a lot of python at the same time. I always always program our dark text on light background.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and when i'm doing python, I do like text on dark background. But that's just me. It just helps differentiate in my head. I do pay for now. All i'm doing are now because i'm sure as we go on, you'll find out they are similar, but different
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in many many different ways. So yeah, feel free to change the appearance if you say wish. So next thing is talking about our packages.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh. that's because Python missed the chalk, sir.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sorry. Did we? And tick the workspace you saw option? Yes, we did. just because it's good practice. It's not a problem.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's just it's just good practice, I mean, sometimes, if you you working with really really big data set, you've done a lot of analysis, and you just want to go to bed, and you want to come back in the morning and have it sort of where you were.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's fine. It's just a little bit dangerous, that's all. So packages.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so packages or libraries, as we call them, are like apps for your phone very much. I'm sure you guys have been using pandas where you hopefully have to import those. The Our version of those is is called a library.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: exactly the same as in Python that we do and install install a library, and then, when we want to use that library, we can call it so. The the equivalent of
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the the equivalent of a a pip install is an install package, and then when we want to cool that library, we do that as a library command. So we're gonna be using something called the tidy verse. So again, there's 2 different ways. We can do an installation. We can do it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in case
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is installed. Packages.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Tidy this.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: or you can go to tools.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: install packages.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it will come up with a massive long list when we start typing stuff.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then we can find the one we want and press tab
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then press install.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So i'm gonna do it this way, just because it's got the install dependencies already clicked on it. And that's probably. Why so if you go up to tools.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: install packages and then find tidy verse and then press install. This is gonna take
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a couple of minutes to chug through.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's just to confirm tools.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: install packages at the top an entirely by.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and again very much like a python, where you do a pip install. Sometimes some packages or libraries depend on other packages and libraries. So having that install dependencies, just calls in everything
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that all the different bits works, doesn't work. Let's just try that again. So you've got in 2 tools.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: install packages.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then you should have
Simon Wellesley-Miller: tidy.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yes.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then install.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Is that working to go.
sygal.amitay: Yeah, I think it's done. It's just telling me it's not doing anything, and then it just did it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It then sometimes is a bit of a lag on that I don't know. I guess it's got a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I don't know, I think, because it's we're on the cloud. It's gotta go through various bits and pieces, so that's installed the package a bit like when you do a a pip install, and exactly the same as we would within
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I then we were then what's cool?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That one? We would would cool our library if we want to use it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Big difference between. So we can just do library, 20 verse.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it should come up with this big difference between our and python is that now
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we've called that library. All those commands now are just in our sort of base, our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: environment or in our our environment. Now we can just straight use them. We don't have to sort of prefect them with like the Pd. Or the number an Mp. Or whatever we don't have to specifically cool that library in order to use that command. It's just there. Now, in our global environment.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There are ways to specifically call a a command as especially just to explain this. But here is that sometimes, if you calling in lots of libraries. Sometimes there's conflicts around certain verbs or or names of of things
Simon Wellesley-Miller: where they've obviously 2 different libraries are using the same command. So, for instance.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that's exactly what Alex is saying there. So yeah, you can specifically call a a a.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if you've got 2 libraries, both have got a select command, and you want to specifically say I would use the select command from library. X. Alex. Has told us how to do that, so when we load in. This is giving us a warning that we've got a a conflict here
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that there's a sax package which she's got a filter, and there's a deep layer, which is also got a filter. We are using the conflict. So by default we're using filter, and that's masksing stats filter. But if we wanted to use the stats filter. Then we could
Simon Wellesley-Miller: puts that, and then 2 codons, and then that filter command would be the one from the stacked library, and not the tidy.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So it I just get rid of that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Say the installation of the tide diverse, or the the library. You only need to do once. You would with it. Pip, install. But each time we want to use this command we've got to cool that library into our script, and then we can use those those commands.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so that's required on every session, every script. So within the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we've we've directly here, just on installation from cram. So cran is the comprehensive. Our archive network
Simon Wellesley-Miller: contains about 19,000 packages or libraries. They're all free. They all peer reviewed, which is a really really important part of the the Crown Repository. So any library that wants to be submitted into the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the Crown Archive has to go through various different hoops to make sure that it meets has some unit tests that that is
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it, that it works that has certain sort of a level of help, files, and v. Yet some examples of how how things work, so it has to reach quite high standard before it will be to be a a emitted on to to cram. There are loads of those of Obviously, there's sort of 19,000 packages on there of around, sort of interactive graphics, dashboards, machine learning, twitter, mining, Powerpoint creation of documents and and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: maps, etc. There's also other repositories where people haven't put stuff on to crown. So there's a lot useful packages which is more so. Development packages which you can find on Github. So you can sort download a a lot of packages from Github
and and there's also our open side, which is sort of peer-reviewed. I never
Simon Wellesley-Miller: peer-reviewed ecosystem of our packages, which is also got to sort of various bits and pieces on there, one of which is a a fabulous sort of finger tips package, which is, uses the sort of Uk Hsa data. And a really really nice do we to pull that data through if you want to use that?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay, so
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that's basically libraries and and and and obviously
Simon Wellesley-Miller: installing and using libraries, we will be calling in some other libraries as as we go along, and we have to install those. But i'll see at the moment what we've done is just pulled in the tidy, so the tidy verse is, collect a lot of the most popular our packages into one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And what's really really nice about it is that they all share the same sort of underlying principles, so that they provide simple tools with a pretty consistent structure, which you can then sort of use together to sort of solve pretty pretty complex problems really. So what
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the works during the workshops we're going to be using a lot of tide of us. We're going to be using duty plot 2, which is a sort of fabulous plotting system.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We're gonna use a Dp pla, which is a a fantastic sort of data manipulation sort of syntax to be able to do some filters and grouping and and sort of aggregation, etc. And we're gonna be using the radar package
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is basically just reads in Csv and and excel sheets, etc.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So those are all bundled up just within the tid of us. And, as I said, it's, it's it's quite nice in that. They also follow that similar syntax. So they all play nicely, really, really well.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that is the very, very basics. What we want to do now, though, is something a little bit more exciting, and actually get some data and do some stuff with it. That would be that would be good
just to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: just to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So so just going back a stage because I forgot to mention it when we first started. We have the open blank workspace, and then we created a new project. Obviously, we're using the cloud. So it's just created a project within the cloud. And this is our our project area.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: When you do it on the desktop. Your project basically just creates a folder for your your piece of work that you're doing. The real beauty of that. Is that all your work, then, is contained within a single folder. So if you want to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: put any data in there, so any sort of Csv sell sheets, etc. They all go into that folder Any anything you save will go into that folder, any output, documents, etc. That you create will all go into that specific folder
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which means it's just really nice. It's all keeping everything self-contained and then you could there's
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a high level. Our project file where you can save that entire project, and then share that with somebody else, so that they, you know, whole thing, can do all, all the settings and everything all goes with it, and you can package up really, really nicely, which again makes it really really nice. So so collaboration and sort of sharing, etc.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that's what we've done there. We've already created a project. Even then we didn't know it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: within our console up here. We've so at the moment we've got an untitled project. If you want to, you can click on that, and you can change the name of our project.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I didn't know what training
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that will be there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we've also got our details here. So if we were working within a desktop, we would have a folder here with some.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you know, with whatever we've got saved in there, as I say to. So let's just save our starting script, because it's always good to save your work as you go along.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: let's call it training script.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we can now see that saved here within our folder. So this is just a you know, a an a a a file. It's Laura essentially on on this section here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What we want to do is import some data into our folder because we want to use those in a moment. So at the moment, obviously, if we were working on desktop, we would just save our files into the desktop. We're using the cloud. So we're gonna have to import our data up into the cloud.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So I believe yesterday all, although on the smack there was a zip file with some data sets in there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Hopefully. You've had an opportunity to unzip it. If not.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you can do so now.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And also.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: yeah, put them somewhere where you can find them
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so. I believe this I should remember fitness. 5 files.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and what we want to do is upload them so that we can put them into our virtual folder. so we want to click on the upload and then his file.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Let's take it forever. I very slowly put mine on the desktop.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and where are we? We've got beds, a a bed state to capacity. Ae: and then these Tb. Cases TV new cases. Yeah, I'll go through that in a just a second.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that's the I plan.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then I upload is here on the middle, right up here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, sorry. I don't know if you've clicked on something, so it should default onto the files. Tab.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There we go. So you have got various other types which i'll go through in a minute.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But there's files, uploads.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: choose file.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the one we want.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Fortunately I don't think it lets you.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There is an option. It does say about uploading a zip, file. So not tried that. Actually, I don't know If you can just upload the zip file, and it it does say it will automatically expand it after upload, so you might get to just download upload the entire zip file.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I don't think he can do multiple my account.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so it's 6 files. I think we want to upload
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it works. Look at that fabulous.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So yeah, if you want to be one of the cool kids, you can just upload the zip file in one go.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Well, my on.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So this is, as I said, just the equivalent of putting them into a folder that we can get to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I thought she would have to upload them first, just to make them available.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: If we were using desktop, we would just be copying and pasting these 5.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yes, that's right. Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that's correct. Yeah, that's data capacity. A case is new table and pop. Sorry, My, my mistake. I think I've got an extra one for
Simon Wellesley-Miller: some unknown reasons.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So you should have 5
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Csvs.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So this puts everything into that nice project folder.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What also means that you can then swip switch between if you're working on different projects, or you just want to load in, You know, a piece of analysis to do with a specific project you can just load in that project.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So it's a really really good way of staying, organized and keeping everything all in one place to do with a specific piece of work
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is really really nice to that so built in as default. Otherwise everything ends up in your I don't know a folder, and you've just got a gazillion things of very, very messy. And it's that very, very hard to keep up with version control and and the various bits and pieces.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So yeah, so our projects definitely make it easier to sort of organize your files and and your workflows. You can sort of switch between projects that makes it easier, and also means. Then, if I want to share my project with somebody else, or you know, get somebody else to do this piece of what kind of off to somebody else. I've written this thing
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you can then then just say, it's all in this folder, and they can just open up the project, file and everything they need will just be there rather than sending somebody, you know 5 billiondifferent links, etc. And you need to pull this in from here, and that in from there, and I etc.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So it's definitely recommended for so all tasks, big or small, to so put your stuff into nice projects.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if we were using, if you want to create a a new project, if we were starting off from there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: is it possible to move files between projects. Yeah, Absolutely.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's: yeah. So since you've put something in, so a a project basically sets that as your default area.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so you can move something into a a different project. You can copy it or or move it across. You can explicitly tell to say things or load things, and you can give it a so a file path, and it will follow that file path
Simon Wellesley-Miller: by putting something in the project just means you don't have to do that. It ultimately defaults the the whole file path to where you've created the project, which again just makes things really really easier.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And it means, if you lift and shift the entire project. You then don't have to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: change all of your file paths to your stuff. It will still sit within that project. So if you listen to shift the entire project. I will still know that this is a project, and it's, and it's here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So again, that just makes things a lot lot easier with the you know things that suddenly change, etc.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if we wanted to create a new project, we can.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: no, i'm not doing it so.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, it's different on our studio. Isn't. It
Simon Wellesley-Miller: maybe something.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, okay, that's that in a minute, right? Anyway.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So definitely use projects for your work we are now at half past.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so has everybody got the 5 bits of data in there?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Hopefully, You've got your 5 sheets in there. If not, gives a shout. It's half past. Now let's have a quick 5min break. Just so I can go and grab some more coffee before we go on to the next. Bit. So yeah, let's have a 5min breaking sort of come back at what? That is. 25 to 11
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and i'm gonna leave it recording. If anybody's got anything desperate to show up, pop it in the chat, and i'll come back in a couple of minutes and have a look at that hopefully.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: hopefully, you've all pretty much got what I've got on the screen. If you haven't pop it in the chat now, and i'll come back to you in the 2min after I'm grabbing coffee.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay, it's 25 to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I am hoping you're all back
Simon Wellesley-Miller: hands up if you're not back that doesn't really work, doesn't it?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, just there on save
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We are now going to import data, because obviously that makes things much, much more fun when we've got some later.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So there are various different ways. We can import data. As I said, we can link up directly to SQL. There. We can download zip files. We can link directly to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sort of the urls and download data from that. There's a fabulous somebody
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that there is a fabulous package which allows you to sort of copy and paste data. So you can have a like a data table in a in a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What's the word? Pdf.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and you can sort of copy over it and highlight it, and then paste it into our, and I will convert it into a data table also does that for word as well, which is properly clever. But we're gonna we're gonna cover some real basics and just load in some some basic Csvs.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But yeah, that there are some really really amazing ways to import data in, and of very different ways.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we would like to import the capacity Ae. Csv file. So we could write that code from scratch, or there is a little bit of a import with it which we can use to help us.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and i'm all for being lazy and getting wizards to you do work for us.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So open the top right hand here what we've got various tabs. I'll go through some of what these bits do. Further on as we go on. But basically in our environment we've got one here that says, import data sets.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if we click on that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we want to import a data set from text using. Read our.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So it's the second option down. So it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: just to confirm again, environment import data set second option down. Read our.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it's telling me I need a an updated package. Do I want to sold it now? Yes, I would love to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I'm assuming you've got all the same.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but that installs very quickly and just. That's once, and then it should bring up a a textbook. Sorry a new window such as this.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We can then click on our button
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and look for our capacity. A. E. Csv. Which we should have here
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and open.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it will give us a very quick preview of what our data looks like, just to make sure it's right.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What's also quite nice is that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it's given us a bit of code preview. So as we go through, what we could do is every time we run our script, or we try to do this bit of project, we could go into the import wizard.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: do our bits and pieces, and then we have that data to work with. However, that's really really dull. We're all like scripting. What we want to do is is, write some script. so what we've got here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh. but somebody in the wing right? What we've got here is a code preview for those who've just joined our with through this again in just a second, just to make sure everybody is up to speed.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We've got K. Prev. So we can just do a copy of that. So just control C or right click and copy.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And then if we cancel. and then we could just paste that into our script.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And that will do that. So for basically just cool up, just come in on our environment. We want to go to import data sets
Simon Wellesley-Miller: from text, read.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then brows find our capacity. Ae. all right time.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It will give a come up with a preview. We could just press import there, and it just import the data set. But we don't want to do that. We want to copy the code
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is over control, c. Or we can do right, click and copy and silver, and then paste it into great.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then we could just run highlight over there and run.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that will do a couple of things for us.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: as everybody got it to do that as anybody go. Anything weird or different.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: anyway. No, Grover.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: all good, excellent, excellent. So what it's done is in a new tab up here in our in our scripting language we've got a copy of the data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we just having a look at it. You can click up on the on the top, and you can just do a very quick sort of the data
which is quite useful just to getting a little bit of an eyeball with what we've got. If we've got any any any issues with it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we can just close that tab, and it will get rid of that. We go back to our training script. So just running through the script what it's done it's, then it's, it's it's, it's it's it's in the read our library. It's
Simon Wellesley-Miller: done a read Csv of that Csv and it's put it into this object called capacity. Ae, and then we've viewed our capacity ae, up here in our environment.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We also now have some data, and so it's telling us we've got a a data object called Capacity a, which is 68 observations of 5 variables, and there's various different things we can do. So one of them we can run a view command.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if we just want to run
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that command and run again, that will put it up in this in this viewer, and we can have a look at our data, and it's just literally seeing it.
You can do that same thing by just double clicking on the data on the top right hand side, and that just creates a view here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that also lets us have a look at what's
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We can also click on the Little Blue Arrow to the side of our data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it will give us some information about i'm a data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So our capacity ae, is the name of our of our data set, and then we've got a dollar sign, and then we've got these, which are our column names. So if we look at our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: oops.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: thanks to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we see we've got These are our column names, which is the equivalent of capacity at all assigned sites. We'll reference that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: got section there selling it. System numeric. We've got some attendance data here, which is also numeric. We've got a staff increase which is a true false, and that's come through as a a logical data type. And then we've got some other details here around deep queue calls and the wait
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Is everybody got that? And then we can close that up again.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There are some quite nice.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Say, yeah, that's just. and that they to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and also double click
Simon Wellesley-Miller: on that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What's the rules between library, lower case and view? Upper case?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah. Things. Aren't: always consistent. So because lots of different people write lots of different packages, Not everybody sticks to the same naming conventions. So.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: as we can see, we've got a read Underscore, Csv. As a. As a function here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: however, for whatever reason the person who created the view function decided it needed to start with a capital V. They don't quite understand why, but that's what they've done
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is very naughty. We also have some commands which are separated with dots so so full stops, and we also have some crazy commands which are in
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's a camel case where you have capitals in the middle of words and things, and August really, really tricky.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay, that go away.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, sure, now i'm supposed to be somewhere. Why, if I sorry I just realized I was supposed to be a meeting. I better say I can't make it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sorry about this.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry, My, that's so. Another way that you can also get to your view of a small work works. Anyway, that is very strange. Don't know why that is.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Let me just I mean, obviously, you have me booked in for me. Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: said yes, but
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sorry about this. So another way that you can also do a view is that you can press control and then click on an object
Simon Wellesley-Miller: name, and that will also bring up. So you can press control and capacity a. A, and that will also bring up the view of your data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is really really nice, especially when you've got a quite a long piece of script, and you want to know where you are With a. With a where your data is, you can back. You can
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and click on
Simon Wellesley-Miller: day today.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Use command. If you are on a Mac
Simon Wellesley-Miller: object.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I will share my code that I'm doing now for you as at some point.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Why is that doing that? Alright.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Thank you.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and you do the right click to the it's not right. Click! Hold control, and then click on top of it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Let me just move that out of the way.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so you can hold control and then click on
Simon Wellesley-Miller: right?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay. So we've got some data in. We can do some really, really simple things to do, some exploratory data analysis just to work out what we've got here
Simon Wellesley-Miller: an account spell.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I definitely cannot spell today.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if we run a summary function on our data. Let's just sorry for that. Say, you can also move the window sizes and mess about with those, if you want.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So it will just tell us
Simon Wellesley-Miller: some basic data about
Simon Wellesley-Miller: about our data. So it just the very simple mid Max medium quarters.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if you've got any n as it will tell you how many you've got in your data as well, which is just really really useful to try that. Try to understand what your data looks like.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Hmm. Excuse me, right? So we have got some data in.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So let's do something with our lovely data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay, so we've got some data. Let's do something with it, and see if we can understand what our data is.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and hatefully try to answer a bit of a question and do this amazing thing called some analysis. So what we're gonna do, we're gonna plot some of the data to try to answer ourselves a question. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if this decides to wake up
Simon Wellesley-Miller: there we go right.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we are going to do some plotting to try to answer that question. So we're gonna have a go at Gt plot to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So this does cover a lot of stuff which is in the the fabulous book i'll call off the Data Science. There will be a link to lots of these books and and resources at the end will so show you where all those are. They are absolutely fabulous. You can buy a a paper copy, if you say, wish, or there are free, open source, available
Simon Wellesley-Miller: book down versions or interactive books available online. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: all the training resources and all of these books that we'll be using. We've taken bits from are all absolutely freely available.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So Gt: plot is one of several plotting systems within our a bit like.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I suppose, in Python you've got seaborn and mat plot lib. So Gt. Plot is the the the equivalent of of those it's the the mainly the one that is mainly used. There are other other systems are available, and i'll use for different things. So plot the is fantastic for making
Simon Wellesley-Miller: well, just plots really, however, and I don't know if you've used it. I think you possibly might have done a little bit of plot the when we're doing so, forecasting and and things like that. So plot the you can use then to sort of make interactive plots with so hover overs and drill downs and and so clever things, and i'll touch on some of that in the next session.
So why is it popular? All of those reasons Gt. Clock works
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in a similar way to Mac. Not live, as far as I remember my matl lip. Sorry in that. You sort of build up your basic clock, and then you just add layers and layers and layers to it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if you know you want to sort of change any anything on it, you can, you know, adjust those bits and pieces. There are some sort of fabulous themes available. BBC: Use Gg: Pl. To to use that to do a lot. Their graphics.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So Gtp block 2 is a an a typical part of the tidy verse. So we've already loaded in the tight diverse in our script. So we don't need to do that that's absolutely fine.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So our first project we're going to have a look at we're going to look at a a perennial challenge, not a perinatal challenge, as I often say, for the Nhs
Simon Wellesley-Miller: pressures in the a. And e I mean, I don't know who bre this is. Is that a thing? Anyway? We got a lots of demand, and we got some capacity, and we got some ambulances, and we've got a little man here. I don't know what he's doing
Simon Wellesley-Miller: anyway demands and capacity problems. So the data set that we've learned loaded is our capacity a. and it shows the changes in the capacity of a and E departments between 2,017 and 2,018.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we've got objects called capacity ae.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that's our data frame, or what we call a data frame.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What is a data frame? So a data frame is well, a frame of data where we try to look at it. It's. It's always tabular data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So in tidy data each variable forms a column, and each observation forms a row, and each cell is a single measurement.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Probably either later, today, or possibly early part of next session.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We will look at how we can look at long data and wide data, and so convert them from one way to another. But yeah, you've met. Had the wow that is properly to be have is a sorry to be saying they've met heavily with him. Did he have his trademark go time?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I hope so. Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: He did have his bedtime fabulous. He's a very, very well known, very, very clever chap.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I will go on to some resources at the end. But one phase is something called Tidy Tuesday, where basically they just get really really clever people in the world of our. Give them a a completely random data set, and then say, Away you go! What can you do with it? And
Simon Wellesley-Miller: there's nothing better than seeing, like happy with him who pretty much built the tidy.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: doing, just writing, spanning mistakes, and doing like the really basic, not putting the commas in the right places all those really basic areas that throw you every time. And it's like happy to be doing that, too. And it just kind of all makes almost makes you feel human, anyway.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we will be using something called a data frame. Technically, what we will see is something called a tibble. But for what we for for all we are concerned about, we we would
Simon Wellesley-Miller: basically working in data frames. I mean, I guess you guys have used python. So you're aware of the difference potentially, between that you get sort of a a raise and you get series, and you get. I remember there is come on the panda is called the Data table. So i'm trying to remember now what it date frames.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So you've got all these different
Simon Wellesley-Miller: potential data types of of of things. But what we're going to be using is is you pretty much bog standard data frame of and yeah, it's that's what we're gonna be easy, for here we are going to be using a few vectors later, but i'll. I'll explain that when we get to them. So, viewing the data frame we've
Simon Wellesley-Miller: done all this already. We've had a look at it. What we want to do. Oh, sorry! The other thing I didn't mention, which was quite a nice little feature is that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: when you have got your data frame on screen. you can click on this little button here
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which spits it out into another window.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's a little bit slower on the on the cloud, for some reason. In fact, mine's going really slow, but it puts it out onto another window, and that's really nice, especially if you're sort of working with that, and you want to chuck it off on to another screen so that you can do stuff and and look over to it. And
Simon Wellesley-Miller: i'm trying to remember what your column names are, etc., and also
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in that view you can do some really sort of basic filters as well. Just so, if you want to check what your data looks like, totally gone, often attention as but on Simon. So we've had a look at our data frame.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We can also say.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Just run our our data frame, and it will print out
Simon Wellesley-Miller: ahead of it into the console. So let's just run. So instead of doing a capacity, a a a summary of capacity, a. If we just simply write
Simon Wellesley-Miller: without spending mistakes.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, my computers don't see the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: capacity a.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: A. And again, this is got really really nice also for you. So you can just press the turn or or tab on on what you want. and that will also fill. And it also obviously does that for commands it also does it for.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But for data, as you go on and create objects which is really really handy. So if we just simply run that, so I just press control and to. or you can
Simon Wellesley-Miller: run that it will then just give us a view.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It will tell us that we've got a tipple, which is 68 times 5, so that's our 68 observations of 5 variables.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it would just show us the so, the top 10, as it were, and tell us what they are. And it also tell us what our data types out, which is quite useful, and it will tell us
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that we will that we've also got 58. More. Rose, and it would just give a little bit of information that if we wanted to see more within the console here that we could do a print, any calls whatever to see more of those rays if we say wished. But we don't want to do that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Do we understand the variable names? What do they mean? No, I think it's the short answer to that. So let's go through those sorry
Simon Wellesley-Miller: at the site that just gives an Id number for the site. So we've got. However, many is 68 individual
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sites.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We've got an attendance number in 2,018,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so how many attendances they have in 2,018. Then we've got a logical which is a true or false. Did the South numbers increase between 2017 and 18? So if there was a staff increase. We've got a true and obviously, if there wasn't a staff increase, we've got a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then we've got the difference in average between the twentieth 17 and 2,018 a for the numbers of cubicles available, and also the numbers of weights.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry that the time of of waiting. So we, on average, wait.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So what we're trying to see is by increasing. The staff has that had an effect on on the waiting times in in effect, and is there a relationship between the numbers of attendances, the numbers of queues and and weights, etc.,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which we are going to do? A nice little bit of visualization to try to answer those questions.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: yeah, we can do a nice bit of visualization. And
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Mr. Turkey well.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that it's just so. It's how great
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sorry our question is, is a change in the number of cubicles available in any associated with a change of length in attendance.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Say.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: let's start. So we're going to do a plot, and what we want to do is plot our numbers of cubicles against our length of attendance
Simon Wellesley-Miller: say we start off with a. Gg. Plot
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is over to us. Now.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that's just
Simon Wellesley-Miller: well that pretty nicely there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Say.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that's yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: nothing.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Gg.
plot.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And the first thing we want to do is tell it what data we want to plot
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and our data we want to plot is our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: capacity. A.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Say hopefully, that's relatively straightforward.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: The data that we want. The plot is all in our capacity. Ae.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: objects.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Next thing we want to do is add some layers. So we add layers with the plus sign.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So this is where we start getting a little bit different from our friend Python.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but also quite similar. So in the same way. Let's just do something completely different over here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So in the same way as I would do you kind of. If you want your command to go to the next line you need to end with your comma or your plus or your You need to keep an open bracket, so it knows to go to the next line
Simon Wellesley-Miller: for a Gt plot. We use the plus symbol
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to say that we want an extra layer onto our data on to our plot. In some of the software doing. Later we'll be using pipes and and various different things.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So what I want to do is give it some X and Y coordinates that we are going to go through. So we want to use a G on point
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which basically tells us
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that we want to do a a sketch graph.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then that's sorry. Let's go back to that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That you copy it out there and then.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There are certain things that we want to put in our our G on point, and those are called the aesthetics, the main to aesthetics that we need to know for our point. It's X and Y coordinates.
We can also feed in, and we will do later on things like size of the point color of the points, groupings of points, etc. But
Simon Wellesley-Miller: for but absolutely bog standard scat graph. We just need an X coordinate and a Y coordinates, and so we do an aes, and then another set of brackets, and then our X is our do you keep calls, and our Y is our d weight.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So I am going to cheat and paste that in.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, man, that's not what to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so good of a difference from Python in that all doesn't care about indents
Simon Wellesley-Miller: our likes pretty case, but isn't completely and utterly in then crazy. So it has automatically given me an indent.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So I just run that, and we should come up with something like that. So it has given me an in. Then, automatically. However.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if I really want it to be ugly with my cage.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I can do that, and it will still work.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I can the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it will still work. and I I want it to be really evil. I could do that. and it will still work.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But we're not evil here, so we're not going to do that, so we can do a a return after our plus.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we can also do a return after our comma here to make our our data. Okay, nice and readable
Simon Wellesley-Miller: they could be.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And i'm sure you would be aware that if always got to leave your sort of training commerce to go on to the next stage. So in this code this will work.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: however. if I remove that one there, and have my comma at the front here. It's not going to work, I say yes, it will do, because I still got the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: this will
Simon Wellesley-Miller: work because it's still in the in the brackets. But anyway, if it wasn't in the brackets, and I was splitting something out that isn't that it's gonna work very nicely, so generally. Don't do that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, she has got some pretty good syntax errors there, and it's telling me that here i'm expecting a a comma off the expression. What she is exactly is. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: there we go. Has everybody got a scattery plot that is looking like we've got a line of something
Simon Wellesley-Miller: possibly going on.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yep.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I Us
Simon Wellesley-Miller: cool, right? So that was my cool, cool, cool, cool. So we've got we've got a very basic plot
Simon Wellesley-Miller: of some description, and it looks like we've sort of got some sort of shifty sort of line. But what does that mean? Who knows?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry that's explore it a little bit further.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So there's lots of choices about the chart, and we can also do sort of various things about it. And oh, my goodness me.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that pie charts some choices around things like. Obviously, at the moment we're talking about the aesthetics we've done things like changing the all we've done is an X and Y coordinates and everything out. It's just gone to defaults. We can change the shape of our data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We can represent what shape we can add different visual aesthetics, so we can change the size, the color, the position, obviously the X one access. Those are Us. Aesthetics
Simon Wellesley-Miller: change the color. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so at the moment all the size, shape, color, all of that is, is completely by default.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Just to say that functions so things like the Gg. Plot, the Gg. Point aes are functions, and we've already used a couple of functions in our in our code already. We've done a a. Read Csv function. So if we go back to our code.
which is somewhere.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we can see that we've got these functions. We've got a view, and that's got a thing. So all functions are basically called by a function name and then brackets, and then whatever
Simon Wellesley-Miller: feeds into that function. So we've got a plot here, and then we've got brackets, and then it's asking for us data. We've got a G. On Point function, and again it's asking for stuff to go into brackets and and go through there. We've got our read Csv function here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So all functions use bracket. So it's a function name, and then brackets which is worth knowing. So running a function does something. Functions are given 0 or more inputs. So sometimes functions Just have, you know, a load of stuff defaulted.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I'm: assuming you've done functional programming within your python and built your own functions. And yet you mess up so hopefully, you understand what what i'll see if I those are, and tomorrow or not tomorrow, next next session would do some sort of how to do sort, functional programming, etc., because we could do all that, and you can also use a classes within.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: although I do think I've got gonna have time today to show you that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So within functions you can explicitly name arguments. So we've done Gt: Plot data equals capacity, ae, just to make it really clear. But it's not necessary. You can use default. It will sort of go through the order of your data, and we'll pull out
Simon Wellesley-Miller: what what you put into the into the data. Personally, I find it really really helpful, especially for future Simon, because we've talked about him, and he's got he's got major problems is to actually explicitly tell your your
Simon Wellesley-Miller: put in there what what your what your data is. Same with our X and Y coordinates potentially. If you wanted to, you could do why first, and then acts which could potentially be confusing. So yeah, don't do that. But you potentially could.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: However, we could also say that our X and Y could refer to the default values, so we could do is Gc. Plot past the ae, and then G on point, it would assume this is X, and that that is why.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Just because that's the order that X goes first, and then, and what goes Second: so it's not always necessary to name arguments. I just personally find it really good practice, especially because I know what future assignments like. So sometimes
Simon Wellesley-Miller: something like X and Y. That's quite easy to work out what those are. If there were additional things going into that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: into that function, it becomes really really tricky when you're trying to unpick what you've done about, and what you know. What what are you feeding into that thing? So I find it much easier to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: explicitly say what i'm putting in there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So Gyms John's describe the plots instead of the it's you's may use, so there are
Simon Wellesley-Miller: lots and lots and lots and lots of different types of jobs. We're going to explore a few others in a in a bit. But there are. There are jobs for absolutely every type of plot you can possibly think of. But obviously
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a couple of basic ones. Here we've got lines and box box and histograms and stuff. And what's really nice about them is that they all work off the data and say things like a box plot. You just feed in the data, and it will work out all the all the stuff for you. Things like histograms. I think we'll do some of them a a bit later, but you can just sort of feed in the data, and then sort of tell it how to bin your data for your histogram.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: You know it will do that for you, whereas if you've ever tried to do like histograms and box box and excel it's an absolute
Simon Wellesley-Miller: right now. save
Simon Wellesley-Miller: at the moment we've got we've we've laid it and jumps. So what we want to do now is add another job. So we've got our nice
Simon Wellesley-Miller: ish.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I say, nicest it's really ugly plot. We've got our really openly plot. But what would be really nice to do is if we can add in some sort of smoothing line or trend, blind to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to help start trying to answer that question. And you know, can we actually sort of see a a a trend that is getting on there. So let's add, in
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a tread line.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So again, really really simple to to add in there, and it will do the hard work for us. So we want to add in a G on smooth.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so we've already got our to on plot. There. Now, we've got our G on point, and then we want to add in a smoothing line.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So let's go back to my code here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I'm going to do it separately. Just so. I've got
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's maybe 9.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Us. you know.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sneeze.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then copy those again.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: No.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: as everybody got a wibbly line on their data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so what that has done is added in no who who hasn't
Simon Wellesley-Miller: collect.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So let's have a look. Work out what we've got so same as before.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We need another plus at the end of our G on point, and then we want a G. On smooth. and then exactly the same.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And if we ask our problems, collect, we got that fixed.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: You Haven't got it, either.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, didn't put the plus in.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry. Just just run it through again. So we've got our original plot.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We've got up to that that we want to do a plus at the end of it, because we're adding another layer.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then we would our team.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Smith.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then we want our aes, and then more brackets. X equals, d
Simon Wellesley-Miller: he? Because
Simon Wellesley-Miller: y equals the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: wait. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if you got an error message past it in the chat.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yes, we can even, and we will come to that in a minute
Simon Wellesley-Miller: quite often. It's best to show you the long hand, and then we can show you shorthand.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But yes, we will. We will.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It also means that potentially we can unexpected symbol in
Simon Wellesley-Miller: D White. Is that the full? Yeah, our message? Have you got another
Simon Wellesley-Miller: should have 2
Simon Wellesley-Miller: closing brackets, because we've open up to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Is that working now, Phil? Anybody else? It's very hard, probably easy to shout. If you can come off mute.
Phil Debenham: No, it's not working. I'll paste my code in the chap.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, okay.
yeah.
That's good
Phil Debenham: bizarrely enough. It's now worked.
Phil Debenham: That is very weird, so it wouldn't. It wouldn't run when I highlighted it. But doing control enter has made it work.
Phil Debenham: It's good.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay. I mean quite often I go and do things like that, and try to run it. which is very, very cool, all right. So hopefully it's Got a whiply line
Simon Wellesley-Miller: just to go through a couple of little nice bits about against of us today, but it tries to do is when you're next to a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: bracket we'll try to highlight the the matching bracket, which is really nice, especially when you get into those lovely nested commands of of doom.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So again, if i'm if i'm next to that one, it will tell me, but the matching bracket for this one here is that one there. There is an option in the global options that you can set your your brackets to rainbow brackets, so it color codes them.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and so it tries to allocate them across, and then you can sort of try to match by color again, which is, which is quite nice. Take, excel, does that which is quite a nice little feature. I'm not going to do it. Hicks, the Pant doesn't share very well on on
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a free zoom. And that stuff I've had feedback for. But i'll usually do that, and also makes your code super super pretty, which is quite nice.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So there's that. So what we've done now is ultimately fitted, using a a lowest model which is least ordinary estimated. Some of squares off the top of my head. I'm trying to remember now
something like that. So basically it's a it's quite a funky, smoothing line
Simon Wellesley-Miller: where it uses a sort of formula a bit similar to a K means, and it kind of sees what's near it, and then tries to create a a, a a, a line based on what's near it. So it's quite a good fitting liner. However, it can
Simon Wellesley-Miller: massively over fit to outliers and and do some weird things, but it kind of looks at what's close to it, and then tries to make a a wiggly line based on that.
However.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we can also fit different types of lines to it, which I think we are going to do.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So yeah, we've come out with that. And if we want to, we can add a a linear line to it which will just be a fox that did linear regression. So let's
Simon Wellesley-Miller: at
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so copy your data. Again.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I like to copy your code again. Sorry. And basically we just got to feed another
Simon Wellesley-Miller: feature into our G. I'm. Smooth we want. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: this is where it gets a little bit complicated when you're first starting out. So the aes is the aesthetics for your actual dots and your charts, or your line, or whatever.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so anything that we put within this aes sub set of brackets would affect all the dots, submit, and bulbs and pieces.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Our actual smoothing line are not to do with these dots and that sort of calculated separately. So we want to create a separate.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We want to tell it to do something different than what we do so we're gonna change the model that we're using. So in between the 2 ending brackets we want to add in
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a method
Simon Wellesley-Miller: equals L. M.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And in in in speech marks.
and i'm going to make it pretty by moving that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: let's change that tab
amazing. I so now
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that will give us a linear trend line rather than a smooth tread mine.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: because our is super cool at stats.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We can also.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to a what we got. The
Simon Wellesley-Miller: The
Simon Wellesley-Miller: my Oops
Simon Wellesley-Miller: account spell.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's a cool trustee.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we can create ourselves a very quick
Simon Wellesley-Miller: linear model
Simon Wellesley-Miller: of
Simon Wellesley-Miller: data so sorry that's not included in there, and that will pull through our coefficients and our statistical significance and residuals, and all of our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: all of our lovely stats on our linear model. If you are so inclined to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the main one that we're interested in is that our 3 little asterisk is here, which shows us there is something significant going on between
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, and yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: not going to explain all linear modeling stuff for you. Now
Simon Wellesley-Miller: say what is happening, what and what is happening here. Say.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That is the tilde sign, which is shift hash on a normal keyboard
Simon Wellesley-Miller: next to your return key. Sorry I should have. That is a bit of a weird one that we use shift to score a tilde.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And yeah shift hash
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that is on my keyboard. You might have some weird Mac keyboard or something. I don't know
Simon Wellesley-Miller: hopefully that comes through cool. So we've got couple here which appear to be not like the others.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: A bit of outline. Say. let's look at our hypothesis. So we've got 2 sites that have seen staffing increases.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So what we want to do is say what we can do to our graph is if we map the color
Simon Wellesley-Miller: based on the staff increase. We' to highlight which of those sites within our data set here has seen a a, an increase. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we want to go back to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it So that's load. And let's copy our data in again.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if you're doing this all on one that's absolutely fine, it's not a problem. So we want to now add a we want to color our dots in, based on our staff increase. So we just remember our data. Again.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if we have a look at it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we've got a staff increase which is basically a a true or false. So we want to color all our true ones in one color and all our forces in another.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we've got our G on point here, and we've already told it. It's X and y coordinates. But now we want to give it another aesthetic to say we want to change the color
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so literally we can do it comma and then color a cool stuff increase.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so now, depending on whether it's a true or false, it will color them in by default, one color or another color. So this sits it within the aes, because we are changing a feature of the dots.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if we want it to color them all, something we could color them, but our color would be outside of the aesthetics, because it was just doing something across the the board. If we wanted to change the shape of them globally.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Then we would do that outside the if we wanted to do it based on something, then we include it within the so I would play with that in a minute.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So now, if I've added color to my graph
Simon Wellesley-Miller: pew.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we can see right for me relatively clearly that our sites, which have had
Simon Wellesley-Miller: an increase which is this one, this one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: this one. and this one, on the whole.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: have seen a reduction in their weights. We, obviously these ones are, are also still a little bit high, but I don't know what they were
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that you know we don't know what else has been going on with those, but on the whole we do appear to see a difference. If we wanted to, we could. Let's just
Simon Wellesley-Miller: have a mess about a little bit, and let's have a little bit of a free form. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: what we could do instead of color, we could change that to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's Sorry. That's my number.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, we can. We can block, and we can do a size based on this thing. I'll give telling me off here
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the warning message. That is just a warning that using size for a discrete variable is not advised. Yeah, it's probably right, because that's really really ugly.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: If we wanted to, we could change our I don't know our size, based on
Simon Wellesley-Miller: numbers of cubicles.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and if we wanted to let's put it outside and we could do color
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oops.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it goes right.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Say my size is based on my d cubicles now. So as I bought, i'm expecting to see as
Simon Wellesley-Miller: as we move to the right, the dots should get bigger.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I've put my color outside of the aesthetics and told it to be red, which should just then make all of my dots red globally.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so let's have a look at what that looks like
Simon Wellesley-Miller: ghastly. But I hope you get the point. So everything there is is hopefully changeable. I mean, you can potentially
Simon Wellesley-Miller: add in you change it to sort of the shape, the the whatever you can. You can have tweak with those to do various different things. It's. It's a very recent thing that asked you to has done recently to tell you
Simon Wellesley-Miller: what color is and what red is in case you didn't know. You can also put it in hashtags for hex, hex colors.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is also really really useful. If you want to stick to the Nhs color scheme, and very specifically use those.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We will come to that in a minute.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So so we've done that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: done size. So again, if we wanted to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: make our size global. Then we would stick it outside. If we want it based on something we can. We can make it based on a a feature.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Well, we got
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so to answer evenings question. So to avoid duplication, because we're all really really lazy, and we don't like duplicating our data, our coding, because, you know, we've got poorly fingers, and we don't want to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: have to type in x equals y equals. And then again and again
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we can put our a. As within our Gg. Plot, so let's
Simon Wellesley-Miller: take it out of there
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and put it in our Gt.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so we've moved it there and then we can also now remove it from here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: If we want to convert back to a lowest model, and not even plead anything into our G on smooth. it would literally be like that. And likewise, if we didn't want to specify our color.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it would be
Simon Wellesley-Miller: like there as well.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So now running that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oops
Simon Wellesley-Miller: using size aesthetic was the
Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So it has worked. It's just telling me off. I should be using line with oh, okay, that makes sense.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: because i'm feeding the same thing. I'm: feeding this size, keep it to my G. I'm smooth my GM. Smooth doesn't like a size doesn't make sense, so it's given me a bit of a warning.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but that's fine, or just remove my size.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There we go. It will stop winding, I mean there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so what you can do is just feed it in once, and then just
Simon Wellesley-Miller: those bits will just feed into your point, and you're smooth. So if I did do my, if I did what to change my color.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I'm sorry my size equals
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if I spell that completely.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Strangely.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I could feed that in there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I it won't feed that for that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: No, I have to be. I have to pull a whole lot through.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, don't do that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So yeah, if I wanted to be lazy and not feed it into every single
Simon Wellesley-Miller: part of the plot and feed that free.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What that does mean. If you do, do it like this method, then you can obviously pull through different layers, and you can have your smoothing based on
Simon Wellesley-Miller: different Xy's coordinates, if you say, wish
Simon Wellesley-Miller: definitely, definitely, definitely recommend not not plotting like 2 different charts on 2 different scales onto one plot. It is possible, but it's really really hard, and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the reason it's really really hard is because it's utterly nonsense, and it's really really bad visualization practice. Never ever ever plot to things with separate scales on the same plot. It's really really really bad visualization practice
the amount of horrible
Simon Wellesley-Miller: bar charts with floating line charts over the top of them on a different scale. To try to show some sort of correlation between things just makes me makes me
Simon Wellesley-Miller: makes me makes me sad. So don't do that it's really really bad practice. If you want to do a correlation analysis. There are statistical ways of doing correlation, analysis, plotting 2 things on top of each other and going. They vaguely go up and down a bit is not how you do correlation analysis. So please don't do that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So let's do some magic. So what is a really really nice
Simon Wellesley-Miller: other little functions that we can do is small multiples.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we are all going to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's it magic.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Let's just get rid of allg on Smith. And now
Simon Wellesley-Miller: say. just going back to here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: back to our basic plot.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What we want to do is add in something called a facet rep. So back to the basics, and i'm able to add in facet rap.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then we want to use our tilde button, which is our shift and hash
Simon Wellesley-Miller: stuff.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then
Simon Wellesley-Miller: hopefully run that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and what that will do is basically tell it that we want one set of data. But we want to create a separate
Simon Wellesley-Miller: charts based on a separate variable. So in this instance we've got stuff increase, which is basically just got a true and a false. So now we've got a chart for our trees, and we've got a chart for our forces
Simon Wellesley-Miller: where this becomes really powerful. Probably in some you more today. Day work is, if you've got several teams or several regions or or systems, or where whatever level you're working at, or
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and you want to use that same data set, but facet it across the teams across the regions across the treatment functions or whatever. So you just create. One day it's that one plot, and then you can create
Simon Wellesley-Miller: all the subplots, all in one go
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is super super fantastic. So this example is just showing, obviously just the true and a false. But if we have extra additional things within that within that data set.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you know, we could. We could build up absolutely huge amounts of lovely facets across all the different things, and it means that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you know, we can also avoid those horrible spaghetti charts where we just plot all of the teams on one plot, and then we can see them
Simon Wellesley-Miller: by using facets. You know. It's definitely, you know we're not. We're not printing these things out. We're not keeping trees anymore. Let's have one plot per thing. And then you can actually do a proper side by side comparison rather than trying to unravel spaghetti.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Not a fan of spaghetti in in in plotting. If we wants to. We can obviously add various. You know all of these things are, or or or changeable, so we can add our non call
Simon Wellesley-Miller: equals one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that will put them up above each other if we so wish. And obviously we can specify Rose, and whatever
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I mean, if we wanted to, and I wouldn't recommend it. So we've got what we got. We've got a site Haven't, we?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, I mean, we could do a plot per site
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which, as far as I can imagine, it's gonna give us 68 plots with one dot on it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So obviously don't do that because that would be really really silly. It's also going to take a little while to render, but it will come free, and nothing we can do is if we can click on the little zoom button here
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which will ping out our zoom.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I'll plot and we can. We can manipulate that a little bit to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But anyway, obviously that that's a complete nonsense because we haven't got decent data in there. But hopefully just sort of shows that you can create huge amounts of charts across various different things, really, really nicely, really, really, easily.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There are export options here just within our studio, if we wish to, so we can just save that as an image or Pdf. Or copy it to clipboard. We've got little broom here if we want to clean out all of our plots, if for whatever reason, a plot is having problems rendering. There's a there's a cancel button here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and you can also flip through your plots. so does it. Let's have a look.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Let's go back to. So somebody's asking, how do you make the gym smooth work?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So what do we want? We want it on staff increases.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I forgot my plus they.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So those are definitely different lines.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I know.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: because that one's given it massively Huge confidence levels. Because we've got such sparse data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: These are
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it scaled. Really, it's scaled really weirdly, because that's obviously it's it's expanded to show the confidence levels for this one. Obviously, at the moment we've got we're sharing a y access, but we can tell it that we don't want it to do that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: by. Okay, that's
Simon Wellesley-Miller: very good thing, so I can't remember all of the all of the functions for every single function. So I think we're gonna come to it in our next lesson. But we're gonna do it now.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Help. Help is always really really useful thing to be able to find out.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There is a help button here where you can do a search, and you can find a answers to different things.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I find a really nice thing is that you can just click on a a a and then press f one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it will now tell me how to all the functions and usage of the facet Rep.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So it tells me these are all the H sorry here, where? So yeah, just just click on a something and then press f one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So you don't you just click. So if I want it on Gg: plot, I would just hover just click my on to g plot if I want it on facet wrap, just click on, and then press f one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So now it's telling me.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yep, just getting back to that. You can also type into the console question, mark and the name of your function, and that will also come up here so it'll give me a bunch of options, and what I want to do I want to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that scales. That's it. So I want to have them on 3 scales. so scales any calls 3.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: If I run that now
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it's, put them on different scales, because this one has, and then you can see a lot better what's going on there. You can set them as a free X scale, free, wide scale, etc.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: does your G on smooth working now, hopefully, that makes a bit more sense. So you can see what's going on. But also, if I want it, somebody's put it in there Another way to get help is to just do
Simon Wellesley-Miller: now.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I see it all right.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that will also bring up
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the the answer. And, as I was saying, as part of the getting approved, to go on to the Crown Repository is that you have all of these. What's also really really nice is that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: has some built in data sets, as in just some standard data sets, they're not massive. They just some little data sets
Simon Wellesley-Miller: built into our which means each of the each of these functions, then they can give you a reproducible example. So literally, I can run this, and I can do my find my Gt. Plot there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I can just run that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I can copy an example out of the help
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is really really nice. Still, feature that you can have a a reproducible example of right. Okay, this is it. And then you can kind of unpick it and hopefully get to to where you were.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is really nice, and i'll see this is just giving you a couple of different examples at different levels.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And
Simon Wellesley-Miller: oh, yeah. So if you want to change how the labels are printed, or changing the order that the panels appear, etc., etc., etc.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So, literally, this has got an example of exactly what we had here about. How do we set our scales to be free
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that we go? So again, the help functions within our are really really useful.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: The other thing I find much, much better than Python is actually all the error messages. So I quite often find that the warning messages and the area of ever messages are actually quite useful.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and if you're ever stuck, I definitely recommend just reading out the error message out loud to yourself because a lot of the time, it will actually answer your question for you, which is fabulous.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we took a little bit more, and then we will do some other bits and pieces.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: let's just do some very, very quick.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Let's go back to our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: version here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Make it pretty.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So I really don't like the standard standard output. So let's just go back to what that one looks like.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There we go. So we got that. I don't like great backgrounds, and I don't like the grids. So there are ways, and there's lots of variables that we can just change the theme. So let's just do theme.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Minimal is my favorite, and i'm not gonna add anything else to it. I just gonna add on that plus fee minimal to the end.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it will just get rid of the black, and change a few bits and pieces if we want to. They're awesome. So if you start typing in theme and then under school oops.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it will come up with a few other options. So it's been dark. What about the like?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But there are a bunch of themes. There are libraries of themes, so you can download like the, for I think the BBC. Has got their theme available that you can just pop it out. Financial times. It's got one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There is an Nhs.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There is an Nhs our theme which converts everything over to use, and it just color schemes as per standard
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which you can get on the Nhs our github.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So yeah, but basically you can also set up your theme so that you can set up a theme for your team. So If you want to use specific corporate colors, etc., certain fonts, etc., you can. You can change that
much as you can with se ball, one and a map. Pop lib. Everything on the chart is up for grabs about what you can change so you can change labels. You can change fonts. You can change
Simon Wellesley-Miller: at the moment. It's gotten, you know, gaps of 20. If I want to actually be gaps of 10, I can change that if I want to be gaps of 4.7, 6. I can change that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: etc. in everything within that chart plot is is up for grabs. So let's just do some other quick plots. Let's do a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: histogram. I I can't spell his program.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so we want to do a Oh, it's
Simon Wellesley-Miller: equals capacity.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I can't spell capacity a a. and then i'm going to do a gee
Simon Wellesley-Miller: histogram
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in a Yes.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: because it's just a a I his scram. We only need one variable. So it's Just have a look at off the weights.
I can read that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it will give us a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: very quick and dirty Instagram.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it's told us as standard.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We've given it. It's given it where we 30 bins.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: If we want to, we can change our bin with.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And again, just on the fly it will, it will change our bins.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is quite nice.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so we can do a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I should probably
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a boss.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yes.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so that should be an equal shine. Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that gives us an ugly
Simon Wellesley-Miller: an ugly bar plot.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What would be much nicer is if we copy that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and let's make a an ordered version.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: because if we're making bar plots, we should always order our bars
Simon Wellesley-Miller: unless we're using a Time series, in which case don't use a bar. Plot is a line plot. But
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so let's reorder our sites based on the attendance, so we can do a re
Simon Wellesley-Miller: order. and I can put that in another function. We want to reorder our sites based on the attendance
Simon Wellesley-Miller: 2018. And then
Simon Wellesley-Miller: this is where it gets really, really really messy around commas and brackets because we're doing functions within functions and all of that joy.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But then, apart from the bottom there
Simon Wellesley-Miller: with the site names. But we can now see what's what's going on there if we specifically want it to color in certain of the bars, etc., we can. We can do all of that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you know. That's absolutely not a problem. We could change the color of the bar so that we got a gradient we can. You can set your own gradient color schemes to say that anything under 50,000 is gonna be a purple. Anything between 50 and a 100,000 is gonna be a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: move, and anything 100,000 to 150,000. It's gonna be green and anything above that, red or whatever. So you can sort of set your own specific color schemes, if you so wish. There are lots of really nice packages. If you want to do sort of color scales
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to say I want my starting color to be orange. I want it to end in purple, but I want a nice clean transition from there to there in
Simon Wellesley-Miller: X number of steps, so I want 12 colors between orange and purple
Simon Wellesley-Miller: as a transition in 12 steps, and it will give you the codes for the the colors, and create a up to a smooth variant that also. I'm not gonna go forward to that now, because that's just making things pretty, but also pretty good. And again, if we wanted to add our fee minimal to our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: or whatever we wanted. I don't know
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that's no idea what this All 2
Simon Wellesley-Miller: theme light, I guess lines up. Get you about a horrible gray background. And again, if we zoom into that one
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we can obviously see that we have got our numbers in there a little. It's not. It's not quite as messy as it looks when it's all bunched up down here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and obviously we can do so various bits and pieces with that. I'm very mindful. It's nearly lunch time, so we will just do another couple very quickly. Let's do a box plot.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we want to do a Tt plot
Simon Wellesley-Miller: data. It cools goodness. May they tab a plus a please copy and paste it from above.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Don't be like me. And right now, over and again again.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Capacity a a there we go.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: plus she
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we're going to see. Hey? Yes.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: stuff
Simon Wellesley-Miller: increase. How about d?
Right?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that's just given us a box plot based on where we've got a true whether there was staff increase or that was a false, and the distributions of the weights. So we can see there wasn't a massive shift in the average. However, the actual distribution we can see it's much, much more skewed
Simon Wellesley-Miller: this way, and we also appear to have
Simon Wellesley-Miller: outliers on our weights. I gotta copy this one this time.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and let's do a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, you
Simon Wellesley-Miller: lynn. which is literally change the word box plot to violin.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There we go
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and have a look at that, and then we can get a a violin graph of our distributions, which is basically like a density plot on its side and mirrored, but we can sort of see the shape very nice. Associate shapes of distributions.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Can't wait to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I think we can just copy that in there again.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and if we want to, we can add in the like individual. Try to put some data points on there to sort of show you
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the individual numbers that we're talking about when we're talking about distributions. It's very easy to go. Oh, look at the distribution here compared to that distribution there. But we've only got
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a handful Webinar distribution here. So just so. It's very easy to sort of layer up those sort of things, and if we want it to change the color of our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: points, and this one going up, or whatever that's all. all totally possible.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So let's just do some quick tidy up of that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's just
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so. Let's just make it a little bit prettier. Say, let's add some labels onto it, and again it's just that add, we want to change our title to something
Simon Wellesley-Miller: change in stuffing.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we also want to change our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Y access rather than saying waiting, but sorry de weight to something else.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I average waiting time. I for age
Simon Wellesley-Miller: my team time.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: quite simply. We just change. We've added a title. We've added a thing you can do, captions. We don't see if we want to. We can change our X axis and do all of those bits and bob's.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then. if we wanted to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we've made ourselves a nice little plot.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Can't see the previous line has it as a box over it, so I can't. Which bit are we talking?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Which way are you stuck on to go?
sygal.amitay: No. Just when you type? Then a box appears over and hides the the line before. That's all right. Have you got it now? No.
sygal.amitay: I
Simon Wellesley-Miller: where. Where's it? Where have you got to? I can go back a bit.
sygal.amitay: Don't worry. I'll i'll figure it out.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so say we've made ourselves a nice plot.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then we want to save it. We can just save it if we say wish
Simon Wellesley-Miller: as so we could if we want to just click on the export here, or we can tell to save it for us. and we can just do a chichi save
Simon Wellesley-Miller: no
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Don't P. And G. Oops.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that will just save it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's just a No, I say
Simon Wellesley-Miller: what's quite weird and quite interesting that if we, if we save it, I see what you mean. It comes up with that. If we save it in this format.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: save it like that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay, I'll get back to that then. That might, because we're on the cloud. I'll come back to that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That that would work normally, and it would save it as a Png image. What's really quite weird is that it saves it in the shape and the format that you've got it within your window here. So if you've stretched it out here we'll have it stretched out there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There are methods that you can sort of feed through to your Gt, save in order to specify the height and the Save Oops. Sorry. Sorry, Houston.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah. So there are ways of specifically, if you want to tell it to save in a certain size and shape. You can do that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: However, what we're possibly doing either later, today or possibly next time around, is showing that how we can put our plots directly into output documents, so we can put them directly into sort of either HTML interactive reports or we can put them straight into a word, or or whatever, or Powerpoint, if we say wish.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah. So there's no need to specifically, save in in a sort of in a plot format.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Hey, Kitty
Simon Wellesley-Miller: any questions vaguely on plotting, I mean absolutely scratch the surface of of what's possible here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but hopefully, just to give you a very very rough idea. But you know it's just that. You can build everything up in layers, and everything is then tweakable and and adjustable.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So would it. People rather. I could definitely share a code over lunch
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Would you rather have? I don't know how I don't know how you guys do breaks normally. Is it normally a long break. Are we having a 2h pub lunch? He's buying, or are we having sort of a quick 30, 30min, and come back? What how do we do things.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and happy to How about discussion with anybody?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I will show you 1h lunch 1h. right? Thank you.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: All right, then. So we don't all go into the outrages right? Okay, If we do 1230, then all right, so we'll make a start on to the next section. But we're not going to get through it. But that's absolutely fine. Okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Any questions on plotting before we move on to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: our next bit.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Nope. Okay. And as I said, this is just one version of one type of it's Tcpot is the main plotting type.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: However, other plots types are available, and I say either the end of today or early part of next lesson, we will look at how to do
Simon Wellesley-Miller: some really funky, interactive type plots, etc. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we are now going to move on to the meat and potatoes of our and decent date of wrangling
Simon Wellesley-Miller: oops.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is so a combination of bits and pieces. I guess so. Sometimes the date is just simply not in the the the format that you want, and you wanna. You wanna. Bring it around in in that way.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sometimes it's a case of you want to do some sort of calculations and make some new new columns based on the that you've got.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sometimes you just want to do some really, really simple, just re-order it, or or or kind of create some functions, or do some calculations across groups, etc. So that's all what we're gonna call data wrangling, and we're going to use something called dB: Dp: player.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So wrangling, as I said, reshaping or transforming. And i'm sure you've had to get that. I'm sure this is gonna be a complete shock to you. But sometimes Nhs data isn't the cleanest or the most complete, or comes in a consistent format.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I know I know I don't know what to say, but occasionally you might meet that so hopefully. This will give some tools around how we can deal with some of that if you ever come across such a thing.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So a note on tidy data. So it kind of discuss this or I discuss this earlier that each variable forms a column, and each observation comes forms a row.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that's generally how tidy those functions work best.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Tomorrow you take tomorrow next session we will have a go at looking at sort of wide tables and converting them into long data, and also looking at some long data and converting it into white data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That will make much more sense if you Haven't used those terms when we actually come to do it. And and what the difference between those is. So we're going to be something called the D. Play our package because we've got our in the library name.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: You will notice, especially when you go on to Cran, and you look at things. There are lots of really really bad are puns and lots of libraries that are in them. And yes, there are some really pretty easy names, anyway. Deeply is really really powerful for wrangling data around. And we're gonna do just 5 of the deeply verbs of which there are many.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: since those those base 5 can solve huge amounts of problems and and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: come up with some really funky analysis. Just in 5 verbs on our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: next steps, depending on how far we get today. At the on our next section we're
Simon Wellesley-Miller: expand on that and show you how we can do some all even clever stuff with these.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So our next project is to look at mental health inpatient capacity.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we've got some data, and it's based on some some real data taking from benchmarking. And we're looking at the changes and the number and occupancy of mental health beds.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: as we are now making sure a ward is okay fully occupied is a serious challenge. So we've got to make sure that we've got appropriate occupancy within our within awards. I'm. Going to look at all of that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: The data is based off of Kh, a free returns which has got bit numbers in occupancy by organization, and it's being published by Nhs. E. And scrape that from Nhs the website.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it's being partially cleaned, and we will come to that shortly. So.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, to you, whether you want to start a new script, or whether you want to continue on from where you are.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: This does recommend you start new script. So let's do that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Just so. We have got things. So first of all. let's save our initial one. If you haven't done it Already there is a file, and save, as
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I thought, i'd already saved mine. or if you have saved it already, it should also should also save as you go along anyway.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so that's fine. So mine. If I go into my files here. I have got my training script, and that is last saved at 1,201, which is the last time I actually run anything. So it's all as you go along.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But obviously they haven't saved it. I you that. and let's create ourselves a new script.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And again, this is something where we can get into some problems with our environments and our scripts. So we've called the tidy verse within our training script. There just created a new script.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Because I've already loaded in the tidy that's in memory. That's great it will work. I can start writing my script right now, and I can use tidy verse things. So if I start writing Gg.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: not there we go. It's gonna all it, and it knows the Gg plot is installed, and it's all good to go.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: However. if
Simon Wellesley-Miller: on my next bit of analysis I just load in this script, and don't load in the training script at the moment I haven't got a call to load in the tidy verse. So all those lovely, tidy verse. Things that I've written from here on in will fail because I haven't called him the Tidy Bus. So if you're writing a new script, it's always good practice to. Well, it's a fantastic idea, unless it is dependent on. I have a script to call back in your libraries, even though we've got them
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in memory at the moment.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but we won't do. If we just come back to this after lunch, if we shut down at over lunch and then come back to it. It won't be there within our script. So let's just call it that, and i'm gonna call this
Simon Wellesley-Miller: training the prior.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that would also be not gonna be nicely safe as I go along as well. So I've got a new. and we're all good to go. So now, if I
Simon Wellesley-Miller: shut down completely and open up my deep, my training deep, I script. I've got my live library, tidy verse, and it's all good to go. I mean we can leave it back in. It's not gonna do anything because it's already there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay, so that makes sense
Simon Wellesley-Miller: good. Good.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So our next bit in is, we want to load in our heads data. Csv: so, hopefully, you can remember.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and and also just to note, by the way, that we have still got our capacity a a in our global environment.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if I wanted to, even though i'm on this different script, I can. I can do LED capacity. I a.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: If I wish to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then we, it will bring up the head of capacity because it's in my global environment.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What's important to know is if I save everything, and you know, go and have lunch, and then come back after lunch. I'll run my tidy that will load in.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I will then go into my capacity. Ae, and it won't be there because I would have flushed it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: after i've, you know, reset because I haven't told our to keep a of my environment.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if I wanted to use capacity a in a new script, i'm gonna have to sort of load it in again. We're not using it as the a in this day as just something to be aware of.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Which is why, doing that, saving the environment and then coming back into it, and then doing something on another script
Simon Wellesley-Miller: can become really really dangerous, because at the moment I could write a whole bunch of script that does stuff on capacity, i. E. I'll come back, and i'll share this with you, and then you'll go Well, I haven't got class the it doesn't exist anywhere. So anyway, right? We want to use beds data. So we want to go back up to our import data set.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we want to use read our again.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we want to use Browns. and we want to find
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and open.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And again it will come up with a little preview for us.
Rachel: Hi, Simon! Hi! Sorry to to. Could you just do that again a bit slowly, because I I,
Rachel: my computer, crashed up for the last break, and I missed it. So make sure we got tidy vessels, or then we'll go import data set
Simon Wellesley-Miller: from. Read our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then browse. And hopefully you still got uploaded your
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I can.
Rachel: Yeah, that's great. Thank you.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we've got a few problems now. There, I hope you can see
Simon Wellesley-Miller: first of all, we've got an absolute classic of
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Nhs the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: metadata at the start of a file which is really frustrating.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Say. what I've done is read the top ones, and we've got a total. We've got Kh a referring. Then we've got some blank spaces which is really annoying our actual
Simon Wellesley-Miller: beta that we one starts on the third row.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but thankfully, we've got some nice little functions where we can a nice little bit that we can change that so we can change it to skip
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the fast free
Simon Wellesley-Miller: rose so on the skip here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then we just click out of that. and it should refresh.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And that's given us
Simon Wellesley-Miller: proper headers for our data tables
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that come through with everybody. So now our headings are date. Okay, old name, that's all I have, and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: no sorry I missed that, because you just do that again the skip it. So if you've got it with the old version, just basically, put a free
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in your skip and then just click out of it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it should then just skip the first free rose.
Rachel: Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yep.
Lewis Phillips: Is there a way to go back and do that after you got ahead of yourself and decided to just copy and paste the code in.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, for speaking
Lewis Phillips: like I did
Simon Wellesley-Miller: getting excited on a: so yeah, I mean, she just basically go back into it again and start again.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So it brows again. So yeah, just cancel out of it, and then just go back in again what we on beds data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I can.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So will that replace what's already? It's right from the Uk. And you just copy over it
cool.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So just to show you if you just press import now.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: just to show you what that would do, it would create a beds object data object. What it won't do is paste. The code in for you. So you don't want to do that. So that's given us our dates there. We've also got another bit of a problem
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in the date
Simon Wellesley-Miller: is Comfort was a character format rather than a date format.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we want to tell that that's a date.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: say
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in excel. Excel is like everything today. It treats everything as a date, unless it's told not to treat it as a date which is really really frustrating in some things, but kind of Nice and others.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But our doesn't do that, and we need to tell it. It's a date so we can click on our little arrow next to where it says character.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we can tell it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: what type of data item that we would like it to be. So we like to import that date as a date.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It will then ask us what format it's in, so it defaults to not the American version which we don't want to do so. We want to change the M. And the D around, so that we can tell it that the first one is our D
Simon Wellesley-Miller: day and our second one is our month.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then our y is is long format.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So make sure you are Dollar signed the dollar.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then why? And then, if you press okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that should then do us a new preview.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and convert it into date format, which will put it into, I say, format for us. Does it matter, M. Or M. Yes, it does so. A capital M.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Let's just remember what this capital M. Do.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So there are different formats depending on how your month is selected. So if it's got the words, then you can use a. B. Yep. Yep. Year is first. Now, that's correct.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: If you've got like a a a column that's got like o one September in words, and then a year you can put that in there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We've got a capital. Why? On ours? Because we've got a full year if it was just the part of the year, and it just said 13, and you could use a lower case. Why, to cut that out. So it's various different ways. There's also a really really nice package which I found recently, where you can just feed it. The messiest states
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in one, even if they're in the same, you know, when you sort of sent out those here. Please fill in this this this, this excel sheet, and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you Don't set the formatting for dates, and you come back with 50 versions of a date, because the amount of ways you can format date. This is an amazing package which just sucks all of that in, and then it converts it into nice state full map. But anyway, we're not gonna do that. We're just gonna try to change it with our date here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so we should now have Our date will be as a date, and it's gonna put it in a a nice, I say, format for us all. Code is a character, and these are all coming through as doubles, and also just to note it appears we've got some Nas and some missing data
lauren szarvas: on my on my screen. I can't actually see the data Preview section. It's just completely collapsed. I don't think my importance. Data is big enough.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's I'm just gonna bring mine in. So I've got it again. So what's it done? It's just not coming through with anything.
lauren szarvas: Yeah, I I I imagine it's there, but just the the the whole box isn't big enough to show the preview it's just got the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the column headers along the top.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I I'll pop this code into the chat. I mean it's the code come from the bottom right out. You can't even see that
lauren szarvas: I can see the code yet, but I can't. I can't. I haven't managed to format the the dates yet, because
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so now what that is, you must have
somehow clicked and drunk it. If you copy the code, I just put in the chat.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That is the correct session.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay, thank you.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that we've got some say to might be a screen size thing. Yeah, I don't know.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Good night.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So now we've got another object up here. We've got our view bed status, so it's pulled up through. We could double check
Simon Wellesley-Miller: another really good way of just double checking that your dates is in a date Format is by clicking on it, and seeing which way it sorts it. So wherever it sorts it by date, or whether it's, tries to sort it alphabetically. So you should have year, month, day, which is the default for dates within our.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There are ways of converting it back into English readable dates.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But Germany, if you're using dates. It's best to use that sort of format, because
Simon Wellesley-Miller: obviously it works much much nicer, especially if you try to order things and and to do bits and pieces
Simon Wellesley-Miller: they could. Okay, so we got dates. We brought an organization, name, code, organization, name.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and if we click on
Simon Wellesley-Miller: an organization we see we've also got a bit of a time series as well. So for each organization we've got a time series of data. If I click on that one as well.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: there we go. So yeah, we can see we've got a time series of data for a bunch of organizations. We also have some organizations with some missing data
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sorted fabulous. You can get so hopefully everybody's got some data, and just
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we could do that summary as well quickly as well, which is always quite nice to have a look at
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Summary.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's
Simon Wellesley-Miller: thanks.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And then we go. We have got bunch data. Tell us it's quite nice. It's obviously even on the date. It would tell us the minimum, Max, which is quite nice, just to make sure that you or your data is come encompassing the the period that you wanted to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We've got organization codes. We don't see a string, so there's not much it can tell us about that on our beds app, which we've got our men, and we've got our maxes, but it's also told us we've got some n as in there, which is also quite nice to to know that we've got those.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And same with the occupants average. So that's that's quite a nice, really simple function to just run on your data when you first get it just to get a bit of a bit of a sense of what that feels like.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There is an amazing package called Data Explorer, which just. I'll show it to you next time we feed it. A new data set, and it will.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It will analyze it for you in the most create. It will do like cross correlations of everything. Give you frequency tables for every single one of your
Simon Wellesley-Miller: variables within there, and do a huge amount of really really clever things on it all from just one command, and it gives you like this 5 page report on your data, which is just amazing.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I would analyze it and tell you where it think, says outliers, what correlates with what etc., which is, which is fab, anyway? That's by the buy.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We are. We are data wrangling. That's what we are doing. Get with the program. Sign it right? So we've got some data in which is a a good start.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we've brought in a a less of a friendly Csv.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And, as you can see within our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: read Csv. Let's just make that a little bit tidy. We can see that we've got. We we can add loads of different things on there to coerce our data into a nicer way
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in a thing. So you're not getting date as the date. So it's just that we'll check you. You've done that correctly.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So input data sets from text. We are
Simon Wellesley-Miller: brows. Was it bad. We want to skip the first free. and it was important to tell it what order that our data is in. So we want to change it to a date.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we want to change that one to the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: on that one to an M.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Because we've got date sorry day month, yeah. And okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if that's not working to go check the date. Sorry that the code that I put in the chat and see if that differs from what you've got.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Obviously, that's just trying to co us the data at an import stage. There are ways. And again, we
Simon Wellesley-Miller: probably catch that at a later point.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Once you've imported your data. You can also then convert it into different types if if you wish, and we can cover that next time.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we probably will do in a, in a few things, because there are some other really, really nice data types that we can play with.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: One of them is called factors, where you can basically convert a string into a factor. So you can make no medium high, and you can all the things by low medium high. Or if you've got a set of
Simon Wellesley-Miller: teams that you always want to show in a certain order, so you can make sort of categorical data and and give them a a ranking which is, which is really nice. So you can do that. No medium high agree, disagree and etc. Hopefully, you've got a date now to go. I assume that you have.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So let's just have a look at our data. So just looking at the head of it. So this is real data. So there are some real issues which we will come with.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I said. We've got dates hopefully, that has come through with the dates. Now, we've got organization cage, which is your link to the organization name. That's just a a one to one check
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then we've got something. Go to bed, and we've got an occupancy average. So that's just the average number of beds for that month. Average occupancy for that month, and then we've got
Simon Wellesley-Miller: these lovely Nas, which we will have to deal with. So we're gonna have a play with deeply, and we're gonna use 5 main verbs.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which are a range filter group by and summarize.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: They don't sound that amazing. But believe me, you can do magic with these bad boys, and that's what we're gonna do. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: building with steps. And that's the really really nice thing about how deeply it works is that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: they aren't necessarily used independently of each other, and it's a kind of a step by step process, and then you can make these amazingly beautiful analytical pipelines. We just sort of pipe the data from one to the next to the next. So when I make our mashed potato, we start of our potato, we peel it, we slice it into into chunks, we boil it, and then we mash it, and we end up with our mashed potato, and that's kind of what we will do with our code. So we start with our our object, which is our particular.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: They say we'll add a pill function to it. We do our slice, we do a boil, and then we have an output of mash, but it wasn't my idea. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in tidy us syntax, we've got our input object, which is our data frame. So our our beds, data, or whatever, and it's all about. Do this to it, then do this to it, then do this to it, then do this to it, then do this to it, and then
Simon Wellesley-Miller: output
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which oh, good! This is old school, all right. Ignore that. So basically, we start of our data frame, and we have these things called pipe operators. This has changed in the last 6 months
Simon Wellesley-Miller: might even be a year now that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it used to be the pipe operator symbol used to be that which was
Simon Wellesley-Miller: percentage right hand percentage sign. It's now changed to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that which is your I don't know what the name of that is up and down line
Simon Wellesley-Miller: just off the head of I I will be finishing in 2s. I will finish at 1230. Yeah, that's called your pipe.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And basically you.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's just shift, and it's on your left hand side above your sort of the the left hand backslash and then create a van. So it's a a 2 part, but that is absolutely synonymous with with that they both mean exactly the same thing, and working exactly in the same way. If you go into stack, overflow or older code, you will definitely see these
Simon Wellesley-Miller: more modern cage will have these. I'll just double check where we are, for
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we've done that sorry.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah. So rather than getting on to the actual question. look at that absolutely spot on for lunch. So i'm. So we have an hour. So we come back at 1 30
Simon Wellesley-Miller: any questions before we break up because everybody got the data in? Is it looking in the right place, etc., etc.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Is there a hot key for the new pipe? Yes, that is. I think it's the same as the old one
Simon Wellesley-Miller: trying to remember what it is.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I don't know what it is because I don't use it off my head. There we go control m
Simon Wellesley-Miller: control, shift in.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but I find that control shift. M is free Button presses, whereas shift
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Hi, right, All right. It's also free button presses.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So is that actually faster? I don't know to control M. Did you say
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that it's control shifting, and when I've got it set up Yes, you press them all at once so faster. No, what, My fat fingers we can argue about that at another point
Simon Wellesley-Miller: at the moment I've got mine default it to set to the old version. There is an option in global options
Simon Wellesley-Miller: somewhere to change it to the new pipe. Which is, where is it? It's a code
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to do to do. Oh, yeah, use native pipe operator. There we go.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I click on that one and Ak.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: my control shift. M is now using the new pipe operator.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So control shift. M:
Simon Wellesley-Miller: No.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I'm: Sorry. Yep. Options tools.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: global options.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: code. And there's an option here news native pipe operator, that one there. I need to that one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So it's it's
Simon Wellesley-Miller: label options.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And then code. and then use that if quite options
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and you have questions.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: In that case I will stop sharing and see if I can work out how to pause. The video
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That one there, I think
Simon Wellesley-Miller: cool. So you at Hopper one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: hey? Okay. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I've just saved my script in the I've I've popped it into the slack, just saying, If you want to download your your code yourself.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you can so normally when you save it. It would just be no normal file folder, and there it is, and it's just a normal folder. Obviously, we're using the cloud at the moment. So this is our virtual folder.
but you can click on a script that you want, and up here in more there's an option to export.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and you can just download from there, and it will just download whatever you you've chosen. So in our case it's just our training script that we're doing
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so. If you want your ring personal copy when you go finished and you want it download it to your computer. And then hopefully, you can run it on your local instance rather than using the cloud. That would be fine.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: obviously, as far as security and bits and pieces going. Obviously, this is using clouds. All the data that we're using at the moment is all synthetic. It's obviously not patient level or anything like that obviously would not recommend using a opposite cloud for anything that's got patient, identifiable information in it. Obviously use your local and secure systems.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we was. We was deeplyiring, I believe So if I can find this back up again.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So, using deeply, so we're going to use deeply to remember to share my screen. That's what i'm gonna use deeply to. Where is that again? Share screen? That's the one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, I will do. Sorry, Nicky, I was literally pointing on my screen when I was doing it. Obviously that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you guys didn't see that. So i'll just go back to. Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So within my files here, if I want to download one and have a local version, I can click on my script
Simon Wellesley-Miller: tick that there there's an option here for more and then export.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then that would just download it into your computer.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Let me just get rid of that, and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I had to chat up all nicely. Let's see. Where was that again?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, there we go right.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: How do you change the name of the Y access? Sorry. Just go back to questions, make sure that we have right.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we did have here when we were going to save our plot.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but it was not add labels.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We can do a plus, and then we can do labels and then
Simon Wellesley-Miller: go back to this. Go back to our nice block.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We can change our labels we can add a title, and then we did a y equals to change our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: by into average waiting time
Simon Wellesley-Miller: rather than what it was. And how do you change the range of the Y-axis? I sorry. Yeah, so we can do.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Why, Lim
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and say, we just want to arrange between our today Norton 75, so we can just do
Simon Wellesley-Miller: just to remember which order it is to have to do it as a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: how do we feed it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: set scale limits. That's the one
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to you.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah. So we can just do no comma 76.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: My second.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There we go.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And that's chopped off the range of our our our data. So we now change our limits to not 75.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Obviously it's giving you some warning messages here. That we've removed a bunch of rows from our data set. So we're not plotting the entire set. So it's just giving us a warning that's the case so we could make it bigger if we wanted to, so we could do minus 75 to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I can't remember what it goes up to. 275
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, and you can sort of question down and change the change the range, the Y-axis, if that's what you want to do, and also if we don't change the x-axis, then we could Xlim in there
Simon Wellesley-Miller: hopefully. Answer your question right to go back to deeply.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And and, as I said, each and every single thing within that plot is up for graphs.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and you can change it and tweak it. However, you want. Have the text still slum it, and whatever
Simon Wellesley-Miller: right deeply. So we want to know which organization provided the highest number of mental health beds. So if you remember, back to our data, we've got obviously information on the the date.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we've got information on the provider, and we've got a number of the beds. And I,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We've got our pets data. and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: this is still the old version. We're gonna use the new new pipe because we cool kids, not the old pipe. I'm sorry about that. I need to make sure we get these slides updated, and then we're going to arrange
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Pets average. So basically put it into order. So let's get back to our cage.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we started off a new
Simon Wellesley-Miller: bit of data. Well, I started messing about with pipes, and let's get rid of all of that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Say.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we are going to start with our beds
Simon Wellesley-Miller: data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Then
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that range
Simon Wellesley-Miller: on whatever it was, cooled just on a number
Simon Wellesley-Miller: pets of
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's oh.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so basically, all that's gonna do is just sort that call it sort update set by that column. So if we run that through
Simon Wellesley-Miller: again, it's just gonna come out in the console here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we're not creating a new object or anything like that, we we've we've we've discussed that late date, but basically we can see
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Well, actually, we can see the lowest, because it's it's ordered it that way. What we want to do is over it the other way. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: let me
Simon Wellesley-Miller: just make a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I'm just going to make it nice and pretty in this there should.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So obviously that's come through in the incorrect way that we want it. So we want to order it the other way.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so simply that's that should have come up with that as it has done.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But what we want to do is arrange it in descending order, so we can add another function, so we can arrange to sending that out.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if we put a sending. I'm: Shannon
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah. okay, there is another sneaky way that we can do that rather than descending.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I'm sure you've done them in in the same. So you've got all your normal operators. You've got your
Simon Wellesley-Miller: equals, and you're greater than less, than or whether but there's also not operator.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So what we can do is arrange and put a not in front of our beds average. which will again
Simon Wellesley-Miller: re-order them in
Simon Wellesley-Miller: on a that Hasn't worked tool you give me.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I am talking nonsense. We use that later
in order to get the sending we do need to use the descending.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, sorry.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, we could do it. Not the sending, and it would out. Put that as a sending. Okay, sorry. That's me talking nonsense
Simon Wellesley-Miller: all the time.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so hopefully, everybody's got Nottingham. Health care was the highest beds. Have.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: hey? Everyone.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: right time, and stop going off piece because it makes sense city right back to here, so just to say, descending, and the a ascending also works for text and numeric variables as well.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if you put something in descending, if we organize, if we did a sending on Aug name, it would put them in reverse alphabetical order. As I was saying before lunch. We can also create factors and have a hierarchy of things, so we could have low, medium, high
Simon Wellesley-Miller: highest type things, and then we could order by a specified category, and we can create our own categories. So yeah, that that that becomes really really powerful, that you can make your own categorical variables, and they can be
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so that you will of sites always come out in the order by what stp or
Simon Wellesley-Miller: wherever ics they they're assigned to something like that. So you can do some really nice nice sort of arrangements. So that's kind of answered that question in a really really simple way.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So on our question 2
which 2 organizations provided the highest number of mental health beds in September, 18.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So similar sort of thing we already know how to do our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the highest number of beds. That's fine. But now we only want to know in September, 18,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so we want to use our a range as we do before. So that's exactly the same as it was before. But now we want only the observations from September 18. So basically we want to add a filter into our into our pipeline. So you
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a filter does what it says on the Tim. It picks observations by a value or a a a a a rationale.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So within this, and you guys are Python uses so absolutely no problem same as you would within python. If you're doing a test of equality, then we need needs to do the double equals, whereas a single equals is like
Simon Wellesley-Miller: is so I always say single single equals is is so you're actually assigning. This is that whereas if you got a double equals, you're saying is equal to, and then that so it's a test of equality. So we want to get our beds data, and our date
Simon Wellesley-Miller: is equals to 2,018 and 901.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And that will basically give us a a filter that we can, we can filter through. So we could also do a question mark, as our explanation about equals to do a not equals to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which we could do. We could also do a greater than or less than, and all of those sort of things as well. So, going back to our data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We want to get our best data. We want to arrange it, and then we want to filter it. Absolutely no reason within this particular pipeline that we're creating, that you couldn't it the other way around. You could filter it and then arrange it so that would be work just as well.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So i'm going to cheat and copy my code. I just let's go back in minute.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Just gonna copy the questions that I've got that in. Makes it look pretty when I get it. No.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: same with Vs. K. We have got our little line of of do not cross.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Say, we want to get
Simon Wellesley-Miller: all the beds that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: then we want to. and it was
Simon Wellesley-Miller: what was it called? Date?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Date is equal to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: 20, 18 that that should be one
Simon Wellesley-Miller: oops.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we should have this London come up. Is that right? If I done 29, that right? Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: say so basically that's what we're doing so each time. Let's say, we see this pipe operator, we're doing a them. So we get in the beds data. Then we're arranging it. Then we're filtering it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Any difference between using single and double quotations. No; absolutely fine to be interchangeable as long as you're consistent. So you can do
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that if you say wish.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that's fine. What you can't do is mix and match.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and to that, because it will for a wobble.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I that's something I should probably explain. So if, for whatever reason and you might have encountered it before you not closed off a bracket, or you've not closed off a quotation, and you run something.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we've run this sorry. Let's just run this little here
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I haven't finished off my so I've got I haven't got a matching bracket. So here, so this now it's changed into a plus. So it's kind of asking me by and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I what because I haven't finished off my I have my quotations, or my on my brackets, or whatever. What I can do is, if I can notice that I can just put in my closing bracket there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that would it would then feed that in, and it would. It would run, and then I can know to put that in here. Also, I've got a really nice little syntax thing there telling me I've got an unmatched back in.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: However, sometimes I don't know what it's asking for there, and it's just kind of stuck, and if I just press return. or anything like that, it will
Simon Wellesley-Miller: just go crazy and just carry on so you could either put in gibberish, at which point it will come up with an error message, or you can just press. Escape on that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it will quit out of that waiting for the next thing to to come along. So let's tidy up my my data here
and put in my sorry in my cake and put in my
Simon Wellesley-Miller: for any crime. Okay, so what you can do is do mix and matches sometimes if you're writing text strings.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So you could write a texturing which includes quotations, which is where you would get really confused, and it's not good idea. But you can make text strings with quotation marks inside them.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But it does get really really messy. I'm sure you guys have had it as well. When you've done print strings within python, if you, if you just happen to want to do a slash n or one of the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: type things. Then there are ways of getting around it. If you want to actually print a slash n rather than using it as a new line.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and there's ways around that. And that's one of the ways you can do Things is put things within. Quotation marks within double quotation marks. It's yeah, but anyway, we're not going to get down the whole way. It gets thing if you start writing lots of really funky texts. Then maybe that's something you need to look at
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sticky. Where are we? We we all. So we've done that one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we've had our bets data. We filtered it. We did our test of the quality we got our double equals. I mean, that's one of my favorite and most red error. Messages I must have met is when I do the single equals.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I will come up with the warning.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We've detected the names. Input this means that you usually use single equals rather than double equals. Did you mean date double equals? It's like Yes, that's exactly what I meant, because I got it wrong. So that's just a really beautiful example of a an a meaningful error message which
Simon Wellesley-Miller: A. Tells you something wrong, and suggests how to fix it, which is
Simon Wellesley-Miller: great. We should have more systems that do that and of stuff. So we've done our filter. So let's get on to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a trickier question.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So which 5 organizations have the highest percentage, their occupancy in September 2,018.
Okay, so that's kind of what this All backwards
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we got 28. We can do
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We work. We can work out the highest of something, so we can do our range. That's fine.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: However. what we haven't got
Simon Wellesley-Miller: is a percentage better frequency, so we can use a range for our highest we can use filter.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: However, what we don't have is a percentage that better occupancy. What we've got is the average of what we have got. We've got the average and the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: occupancy, but not as a percentage. So we want to create a a new variable.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So yeah, we're gonna create it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So what we can do is do something called a mutate, which basically does what it says. It mutates your data frame and adds in a new, a a new variable, and we can create that from existing ones. So we're gonna get our best data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Then we're going to mutate it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we're going to create a new, variable called perk, which is our percentage occupancy.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Percentage occupancy is average of
Simon Wellesley-Miller: average.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, divided by our beds.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: average beds.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that will create a new column called. So let's do that. Let me just copy the question.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so all the other bits should be the same.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so we want our Ps.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: They time.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Then we want to mutate
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we're gonna create a new.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: The new column which is going to be, and that is so. This isn't about equality or whatever this is, and it will be.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I have divided by our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it all right way around looking at remember.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Look at me. and then so just to remind us it's not a test of in quality, and then we want to do the same. Fail to as before, so we can copy that. But now what we want to do is arrange our data
Simon Wellesley-Miller: based on our new perk we've just made. So we've created something called per. And then within our pipeline, we can call it so. This is where it blows, my mind, especially if you're a a a sequel user. That you can create a new variable, and then instantly use it. So none of that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: group, by kind of craziness and sub queries, and all of that kind of stuff. You can create a a variable and then straight away instantly. Use it within your same pipeline.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and i'll show you later how
Simon Wellesley-Miller: crazily bonkers that can get. So so we've got our best data. We want to mutate our new Perk feel through it by date, and then a range it like, I say, sending based on our new.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that's where sort of building pipelines
Simon Wellesley-Miller: gets really, really clever.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And you can start doing some very, very clever things that's given it. Old school ones that's just change those to new school
Simon Wellesley-Miller: oops.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And what's also really nice is that you can just kind of hover over
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and run everything bit by bit and see how that builds up. So I can just start with my bed's data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I can see that. Yeah, I've got this divided by that. It's 0 point 9 7, yeah, yeah it up to lots of. And a's that's not coming through. That's got all the data in there at the moment.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I can just run it before the then our next pipe run that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: See that's gone through. So I've definitely got my filter now, and it's still doing it. It's it's joining. And now what I want to do is arrange it on my new column here
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to bring out the highest of our. So if I run the whole lot. So i'm just going to control. Enter at the end. I can now see
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that. My well.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: A. We've got a bit of a weird outlier here. So I don't know why. They've only got 2 and 2. But obviously that's given them a 100%. And
Simon Wellesley-Miller: yeah, we've now ordered our data
Simon Wellesley-Miller: directly on this new
Simon Wellesley-Miller: thing. So yeah, we could do an absolute limit. So there is a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: slice.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the and my right
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the end slice.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we could do. Head 5. That's the simple way of running that through.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that will give us a top 5 that way.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Just to remember there's a slice. It's a slice way of doing it as well. I can't remember what it's called.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I slice head.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the apply way of doing things. It should come up with a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We'll come to that later when we start talking about objects around. The difference between assignment operators and equals essentially
Simon Wellesley-Miller: N. Equals 5. There are another useful error message
Simon Wellesley-Miller: not give me.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, there we go. So if we are gonna do assignment to a variable yes, you can do equals, and you could do assignment operators. It's quite nice in our that we generally use assignment operators just to keep those 2 things separate, so that we have equals within functions.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And when we're assigning things, the objects we use the assignment operator so generally it is good practice to use. The sign of price would do.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Once we've done a few more of these. I'll show you how we can use objects and explain what I've just talked about to Mike
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Cool.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: who probably, or Mitchell. Sorry. Who? Yeah. Put a chest question in the chat.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry that has given us some data there, so we've got our beds data with mutated it. We've created a new function. We filter it, and then we've arranged it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: based on our new function, and then we've just selected the top 5.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry. Our next question
Simon Wellesley-Miller: say.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: what was the main number of beds across all trusts for each value of date?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So hopefully that makes it so. Basically we're gonna
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we want to create a a bit of a grouping and work out
Simon Wellesley-Miller: for each date? What was the average number of beds? So we got decent groups.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So i'm just gonna put the question in here, because that's kind of useful. Say.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we're gonna start off kind of the backwards and work out how we can do summary statistics like, I mean, etc. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: first of all, we want to get our beds data, and then we can use something called summarize, and that basically collapses lots of values into a same single summary value and all table. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: think of what we've been doing so far and horrible to use an excel analogy. But that's what we're gonna do. So at the moment we've been doing, filtering and sorting and creating new variables. And that's kind of what you would do on your bog standard normal bit of excel. And that's fine.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: However, if you then wanted to start grouping things and adding in means and stuff like that. You would
Simon Wellesley-Miller: probably pop it into a pivot table and create a pivot pivot table, which is like your summary data based on your your raw data. So that's what summarized as it's kind of creating that sort of pivot look of things. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we are going to get our bits data, and we got to do a means bed. So again, we create a new variable, and we're going to use the mean of our beds average.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And hopefully. You can copy that and get that to run.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and when we run it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, no. it's gone wrong.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It hasn't worked. We should get a a nap.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is, which is bad, because what does that mean? Well, that means is we've got messy data. and we've got some n as in our data, and it becomes quite important to understand what to do with our N. As if we are creating an average. Obviously.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if we've got an an a we could over count that in our denominator or not, and that's where it all gets a little bit confusing.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So do we include them. Do we remove them when we do our calculation.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we haven't explicitly told what we want to do, and so we need to. We need to tell it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I'm just gonna put the above
Simon Wellesley-Miller: does not, but because we
Simon Wellesley-Miller: no
Simon Wellesley-Miller: specified what to do.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We No.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I also has Nan's, which I do believe Python has as well. When you've got not a numbers as well, and we that those can cause issues as well. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: let's just take our main.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we just want to add an extra feature to our main.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So after our beds, I've
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we want to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I don't
Simon Wellesley-Miller: m equals
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it's great.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So basically we want to remove our. An as from our main calculation.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then, when we run it. we get ourselves an average. the main that average.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But obviously that's across the entire data set.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: not as per the question where we want it to each value of date. So we want an average per month, not just the average across the entire data set.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Everybody got the average to work.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So yeah comes through, and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then we want to remove. We can also put a true as a as a T. But again I old school. I like doing long format to to understand that, and exactly the same as a python, if you've got a conditional, so if you've got a true or false.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which I probably should have mentioned when we were looking at the graphs earlier under the hood, it counts tru as ones and false as a 0. So if I want an account. how many truths there are you can just count.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you know you can just do a some of the your, your true forces, and it will give you a number nice and easily, without having to do lots of horrible, if statements and things.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if we change that to main and remove No.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that gives us number 300, but obviously summary across the entire date. So what we want to do is for each value of the date.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we know how to summarize that we got the main value. Now, what we got to do is just do that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: grouping of of dates. And I think I've let the cat out the bag that we want to do group by. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: what we want to do is basically our beds data, group it by our date and then do a summary.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So group by and on its own doesn't produce anything. It just pulls stuff together in order for the do something for the next part of the pipe. So group by in itself.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, Jamie to everyone, if it were an a, would we? We code it to an a.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yes, I it depends what the data looks like when you feed it in. So we fed it in, and it was definitely numeric data with some N. A. And a is an applicable thing for a numeric data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: If, when we fed the data in. We told it that it was, you know we coerced it to being
Simon Wellesley-Miller: numerical, but it had m slash as in there, and they were like hard coded in there somehow as text. Then they would show up as nams, because it's saying that there's not a number
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in this numeric data set, which would be the same things we could do, and a removes nuns. And there's lots of nice
Simon Wellesley-Miller: codes functions that do like an a emits, and removing all your all your data if you've got nulls in there. There's also really nice data which i'm sure you've done. I'm sorry, really. Nice function. So it's shown you probably done with some of your machine learning stuff, so you could impute missing values, and we can do some sort of conditional stuff that we can recode stuff
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that if we got an end flash a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we can change it to the average, or we could just change it to 0 or change it to an Ma or or whatever. So with the conditional stuff, and for some pieces later
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so great by in itself doesn't do very much. But then, obviously, we can summarize
Simon Wellesley-Miller: no horrors. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: now we have done that. My computer has frozen. Oh, we're come back to decimal. Where are we? I
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sorry. Let's go back. Say.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: yeah. let me just copy that. So there's a couple of things here within our data set. It's. Come back and it's given us an answer.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we run free that it's just displaying here within a tibble.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: The answer
Simon Wellesley-Miller: me that in a minute the question about the re the desk, all places can you replace by zeros? What if the frequency is? No, what? The beds average is not. Yeah, absolutely. So. Yeah, we can run conditional stuff on it to to fix the data. However, we wish i'll get back to the decimal points when we get on to the to the next stage.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: In fact, that's right. 9 to teach sign in decimal places
Simon Wellesley-Miller: all right every day
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if we wanted to. We can also do. Where are we? We're in Greek by this what we were doing. I remember now
Simon Wellesley-Miller: doing that, and then we do it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Look at me and my old school pipes. Sorry, Great
Simon Wellesley-Miller: bye.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: i'm I can be very slave. alright. and that gives us a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: result. Things.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Thank you. Big Bang proper job, right?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What is really really good practice is if we are doing a group by so in itself, group by doesn't do anything to the actual day at
Simon Wellesley-Miller: itself. It doesn't create anything, it doesn't. I think, however, it does do things under the hood, and in that it does group some stuff together. So it's usually best to ungroup your data once you've finished grouping it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So once you've got the answer that you need to get to just ungroup it. That won't. Stop it from being grouped from your previous answer. It just means, if you then go on to do something else, it's not already great. It's not already grouped like that, so you can potentially set up another group if you want to, and it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: can cause you problems sometimes if you forget to ungroup something and then do something else to it and then go. Why is it come out with these really weird results so
Simon Wellesley-Miller: definitely definitely worth doing that so good practice is just the add in our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and group at the end won't show any difference.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But is that does come in handy. So where are we?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that's pretty good.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So I think this one's where we get it to you ideally. All other things we can do just to show.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Let's go back to here a minute.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So at the moment I've got my main beds equals my thing. I'm not limited to just one thing within my summary, so if I wanted to, I could put a comma after my
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it there, and I could do total
Simon Wellesley-Miller: equals, and then you can just do an open, close brackets, which will give me a total number. Give me account.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so I by month. So that's how many they were. So that's the average, and that's the toast that the Count.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if I wanted to, we'll see if you can work out how to do it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: You can copy that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we could do a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: me because I love a meeting I hate, I mean
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we can do all of that kind of stuff, so that will give us, then means beds, our total and our region as well.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So you can do all of those sort of bits. And I say you're not necessarily
Simon Wellesley-Miller: limited to to one thing. So let's give you a horrible question to have a get out.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So this is all stuff. We've just done absolutely so. and there will be lots of help along the way to answer this question. So this is the question we want to get to, so which 5 organizations have the highest main percentage bed occupancy.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I just could put my question there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: say. break it down
Simon Wellesley-Miller: right? So let's break it down.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We haven't got percentage bed documents. We've already worked out how to build that in one of the earlier bits. So we want to use that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We want it by organizations, not by date. So that's how we want to group our data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We want a main. So we want to summary statistics. So we want to use our summarize.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then we want the highest based on what we've just created. Our new mean.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: say.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: good tip like I showed you earlier is that you can run your our code at each section
Simon Wellesley-Miller: just to make sure that it returns
Simon Wellesley-Miller: each each bit that you. You want
Simon Wellesley-Miller: acute hate to means not outlier, resistant, absolutely, and and it it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a noise made no end. When people start using main links to stay, and especially I. I usually work in the mental health or learning disability. Serena.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, we've got a patient in one of those arenas who's got a length to stay at the moment of 28 years.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So, using a mean with that patient on any level is just absolutely bonus. So Median is definitely the the way forward. There.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: If you are feeling really really clever, you can also look at the mean function, and it does have a a trim function, so you can trim
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sort of the ends in order to get trimmed main, which is really really quite nice as well, which is another way of possibly getting rid of some of those outlines.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: A. And that's just all built into the mean function.
So this one's over to you guys.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I think there's a helper yeah over to you. Oh, there's a hint.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and i'll just sit back and drink coffee.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: do they?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Hopefully? Not too loudly.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So the trick on this one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And what froze most people is that you are feeding in stuff you've just made into the next part of the pipe.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So just that in mind.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and especially if you come from a purely sequel background. That's just impossible, and you can't do that, and that froze lots of people.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But you guys are. I don't know Python. I don't know python people so you'll be absolutely fine.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Anybody got an answer.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and but he not.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I don't know how to play this. My
Lewis Phillips: mine's tripped up at the range line.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay. What's it saying?
Lewis Phillips: Object. Per got not found.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but I find it easier. So if I run
Lewis Phillips: so in your mutate.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What if you call that
Lewis Phillips: percock perk under school? O,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and in your summarize what you called it?
Lewis Phillips: Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So running through it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So this is gets a little bit confusing because we are. We are going to create. We're gonna arrange based on our summary, which is based on our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: mutate.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is a bit of a mean thing to ask you. But hopefully, it shows the first of all, we wanna pretty all
Simon Wellesley-Miller: beds average, which is up there somewhere, isn't it that one there
Simon Wellesley-Miller: of her talk.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So let's say we can. We can make that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so just checking that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we have got
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but a new.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We then wants to group it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I whatever it is, or name or or C doesn't matter.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I'm just gonna say old name.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but that's just going to group it by old names. Then we want to find the average of our percentage occupancy. So this is where it all gets a little bit
Simon Wellesley-Miller: confusing.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we want to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which will be mean that's
Simon Wellesley-Miller: equals main
Simon Wellesley-Miller: of our PET book.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Jump on a nick from there
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then, and I go and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: equals true, and I can't spell.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's actually a doubt, not a comma.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Then. So we look at our data At that point.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We've created a summary.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but we haven't got anything called per cock now, because we've created a summary by Aug name, and we've got an average of our mean beds. So now I just want to arrange it by our mean beds.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Name that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then
Simon Wellesley-Miller: let's be good. I'm gonna do an ungrate.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then it's slice
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and and any cool
Simon Wellesley-Miller: big guy
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that makes sense If you got that happy to talk that through again because it's a bit of a mind blow.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: don't want to. Okay for that kind of anybody.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Where is everybody got that.
Darren Griffiths: Simon? Can I just ask a quick question
Simon Wellesley-Miller: what you can.
Darren Griffiths: So
Darren Griffiths: i'm a bit confused about when kind of attributes are available. So you know, a a kind of attribute means means beds becomes available in our range function. But are you saying that Perk.
Darren Griffiths: to kind of attribute percock at that point
Simon Wellesley-Miller: isn't available
Simon Wellesley-Miller: when we do. That's data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We've got our raw data, and if you can imagine
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in excel.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: speak, we've added a new column to our base excel table. Yeah. Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So then, when we've done a group by and summarized it, basically, we, we're now putting it into a pivot table.
Darren Griffiths: Right? Okay. Fine. Yeah. I'm with you. We can't then use per cause it's in the main data set. We're now working on a pivot table. We're kind of dealing with the the transform data from here on. Yeah, okay, that that that's fine. That that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So now when we look at it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: at that summarize area we've now got a summary by organization. Name. I'm: not just so. That's just our pivot table we're dealing with now.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so we've only got what's available in our pivot table, and then we've arranged it
Darren Griffiths: cool, and that's hence the the the statement about when you wanna at the end in the housekeeping is kind of on grouping the data it's kind of restoring it to. Its
Darren Griffiths: not just a kind of thing. Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I mean.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you can do absolutely crazy bonkers things like
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we've we've created here our means beds where we've created literally a a means best. We can do a cheaperish variable
Simon Wellesley-Miller: within our summary. which will be
Simon Wellesley-Miller: main beds.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Name.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's
Simon Wellesley-Miller: plus 10, right for no reason whatsoever. Okay, so we've instantly. So we've created a summary variable here called mean beds.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We've done a comma, and then we can instantly call it straight away into our next bit. So now, if we do this summary. we will have. I'll gibberish that ripple in there as well.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So, as soon as you've created this mean bed, that it's instantly available to use, which is just phenomenal. So there's none of that having to create stuff, and you know
Simon Wellesley-Miller: none of that like calling variables and setting them and all of that. You just create them on the flight, as it were, so that now it's so. So I've got my gibberish variable, which is based on my main variable, which I
Simon Wellesley-Miller: built in the same summarized command. Does that make sense?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: You can do some really, really powerful things. What we need to calculate a total first for each organization before creating the percentage to avoid doing the average percentage. Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I mean, generally, you wouldn't do an average of a percentage that's bad bad form. But for the for just this example. That's what we're doing, just because that's the data that we've got in.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So yeah, there's definitely dodgy bits about how we do our how we do our data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So it's got a net here from past, Simon
Simon Wellesley-Miller: saying, how do we? How do we do? Just all places at the moment we've got a I mean bed, and we've got a a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a result with free desktop places. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: basically we pick, we can stick our answer within a round function and and round it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we've got a main beds there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so we can put a route. Put that within a round function. let's round it to 2, just 4 places
Simon Wellesley-Miller: again. This gets when you putting functions within functions, it gets really messy around commas and and brackets. So. But if we run that now.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: hopefully, if I remember, I got it right we now down to 2 decimal places, and if I change that to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: back oh, I haven't actually done that up here. But if we do that equals sign one, I'll do that in a minute. That's our next thing. We're going to show.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we can run that. And now we've got it to wonderful place. Yes, we can. So depends how we want to do things. So can you display it as a percentage, is the the answer. So yes, we can. And there's a couple of ways of doing that, and it depends for what purpose we want to do it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: generally. If we're doing calculations and stuff, it's a 100 times easier for it to be a number, because you can work with that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: If we want to create this as a table which we're gonna output and obviously show to users. We'd wanna put a percentage sign on there, and I can. We would do that when that we do our stuff on the next bit, where we still show you sort of outputs, etc., so you can then format it as a as a percentage.
So yeah, absolutely. But that's more for outputs. This is where you know us as analysts who deal with numbers rather than you know, rather than percentages.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But there are. There is a package which will allow you to convert it to a percentage within your data and work with it. It's just a little bit harder to work with. And yeah, to be honest, the actual percent shines that much, much more useful when you actually sort of come to outputs.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Can you repeat, repeat the desktop? But yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: say. basically
Simon Wellesley-Miller: i'll just run it for a little bit slower. So basically there's a a round function where it takes X of what everyone around, and then tell it how many digits you will know around it to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So, for instance, I went around this to 2 digits.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if I had 12 point blah blah blah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I put that in my rounds. it's gonna Would you sit down to 1, 2 one. So what I've done is put my main here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, the deck Bit: Sorry. Yeah, yeah. I will go to that in just a second. Yes. sorry I will do that now, in fact. So as we've been going through, we've been creating these a little summary tables and all. The only place they've existed is here in our console, and they've just
Simon Wellesley-Miller: given us a result, and then they've pushed away out into nowhere else. So they don't exist. They literally it will come through as a result, and then they don't exist anymore. However.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I want to have this as a as a new object.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so I can assign my little beds data, sorry
Simon Wellesley-Miller: objects.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: my little bed state of summary. I want that now to be a an object. so I can literally copy all of this. Well, I mean you can.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And again, this is where we were talking early about the assignment operator and the equals Oops.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's not right. We want it there. So now i'm going to have yeah
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in front here. That's some. And then assign that this query. So, my PET. Some is going to be my best day, and then
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and now, when I run that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sure, and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it looks as if nothing happens, because nothing's happened here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: However, if we cast our eyes up here now I've got a new object.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it's called bed some, and if I click on that to have a look
Simon Wellesley-Miller: as if by magic.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I have got my table now, and that is now its own data frame, which I can then feed into pipes and do whatever I want to. I could do plots on that. That's now my new data frame.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What I did I deleted it now is create it a variable. So I've got my. So I wanted to put that in a round, and I round.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I wanted to, so I I Originally I did it as a point 2,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But what I want to do is I have it so that I can tweak that deck decimal places occasionally, and you know sometimes I want it to be 2. Sometimes I want it to be 5 or whatever. So let me set up a new
Simon Wellesley-Miller: decimal places. Let's just call it something a little bit more reasonable rather than Deck
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I'm just going to assign that number one. And if I run that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I now get basically successful places is one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But I can then take my variable, and then where it says, comma 2, I can put in my decimal places.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and now, when I run this.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it will.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it will slice it. Will. It will do that. And when I look at my data it will round it to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: one decimal place on the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: main that we go down to one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so if I wanted to. I can make that much much more dynamic. So, for instance, I mean it's probably not a good example.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but I could change that to my any calls the number of decimal places as well. So if I change that to free
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then run all of that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So not only now will my data be rounded to free decimal places is also going to bring out. I need to top free results. Is that right? Yeah. So now I've only got the top 3 results. So again, it's really nice that you can feed in
Simon Wellesley-Miller: one. You can kind of create variables within your pipeline, which then feed into later bits in the pipeline. So if you wanted to only bring back like
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that's really useful if you want to do.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Let me think. Say, we've got a a bunch of sites, and we want to see how much they vary from the mean.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Quite often we go. Well, let's just color all the ones that above the mean as green, and all those ones that are below the mean is red, because, you know, those are above average. Those are below average. We all know as analysts. That's a really nonsensical way of of doing things. Maybe we should use standard deviation so only highlight. Those are our standard deviation away from the main to at least give it a little bit of cisco rigor, because you know that middle area is just going to be wibbly, wobbly, and not really mean very much.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: No intended so
Simon Wellesley-Miller: oh, that was a very good pun. Sorry, so what we could do is calculate the standard deviation, and and then just slice our data to to to highlight those which are
Simon Wellesley-Miller: who deviate. Okay, so
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that was that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So yeah. So signing all these things, the objects. Now we've done our assignment, and we've done a an assignment operator, You can do it in a pythonic way and just do an equals.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: However.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that's just smack on the wrist bad data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: unexpected.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: single. And
Simon Wellesley-Miller: hmm.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I'll copy.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Have you done a. Then
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Let me see.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Let me!
Simon Wellesley-Miller: She paste the whole code in. I put my that's got my gibberish stuff in there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's the
right
Simon Wellesley-Miller: He calls.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I always get modeled. The means. Let's have a I just copy yours and see if I can get it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sometimes. R. Is a pain now it's putting functions within functions. That's the pain.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So, Oops, let's copy the whole lot.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So let's have a look.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: How is yours different to mine?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's saying, I've got something here unmatched. 8 name brackets.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that one meets that one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's just
Simon Wellesley-Miller: yeah unmatched bracket. Yeah. it's another.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So is them pesky brackets when it's not them pesky kids. It's them brackets.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So yeah, check another bracket in after the 2 again. That's that really nice kind of matching
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's all right.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That that's that's quite nothing but our studio doing that nice matching of of brackets to try to work out. How is everything going for going through and to be fair? It did
Simon Wellesley-Miller: actually come up with a a thing here. Tell me we've got an unmatched bracket. Same
Simon Wellesley-Miller: tries to help you as much as possible, which is, which is nice.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that is that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we are going to have a break shortly. But first we going to. So in the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: yeah, let's go on to the intermediate stuff and see how far we get through that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So in the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in the in the day sets the stuff it wasn't in the day. That that was a bit of our script called into train.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is your intermediate training.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if we go into files
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and upload that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if you can find it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I will save this script off, and i'll pop it into the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so. You should have something called intertrain.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if you upload it, and then we want to open it, which is just open file
Simon Wellesley-Miller: into train.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Say. this is a bit of a here some code we've run earlier.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and basically we're going to run through some stuff, and then there was going to be some sort of code along bits as we go along.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so hopefully. so you can do upload, find the file, upload it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: then open.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: file and open.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So just before we go to break it will come up. So basically, when you load in a new script. Our studio will run through it and check it for additional libraries that Aren't installed
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so it's having us here. We've got a couple of libraries that Aren't installed. So we haven't used this Nhs our data sets, and there's a couple more libraries down further on that we haven't got so just scan through and say, hey, you haven't got these installed so you can very quick, nicely. Just press the install button, and that will get them installing.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Squeeze uses 5 million different things, so that takes quite a while to run through
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and install
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so hopefully, everybody can get those downloading and installing
Simon Wellesley-Miller: while we go and break. Everybody got into train.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: upload it and load it in.
Phil Debenham: I mean, I'm Simon, i'm getting a permission. Denied error.
Phil Debenham: Yeah. What stage?
Phil Debenham: Sorry At what stage
Phil Debenham: when I try to upload so I can choose the file. Yeah, when I try and open it, it's saying, permission denied.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: How are you trying to? So it's uploaded. It's in here, is it? You've got it? You can see it. I can't see it in there. I'm trying to get it into that section.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay, say.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: she did trace file. I need it into train.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I can. Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Is that still going?
Phil Debenham: Yeah, i'm getting a file upload error. I'll try and download it again.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, Just double check, is it? I mean it's. Where are we? 24.7kB? It hasn't just come through with 0 or anything weird.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So I upload. Choose file
Simon Wellesley-Miller: into train open. You're not clicking on browse. One thing weird like that. Nope.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And then Ak.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I: wow. yeah, let's just overwrite it. That's fine.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it should just load in there
Simon Wellesley-Miller: still. Not
Phil Debenham: still get the same error.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Anybody else getting that?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: No. But if everybody else is okay. Do you want to take a 10min break, and i'll just if you want to share your screen. Let's have a look and see if I can sort it. So where are we? We are at 40. So if we come back at 10 to free.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: do you want to share your screen? I just see if I can.
Phil Debenham: Yeah on set. It sounds like
Phil Debenham: you're able to enable screen
Phil Debenham: well
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in principle.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So who sorry? Who am I talking to? I don't. I can't even see that. All right. So I mean I'm, Phil, you know I feel right.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Bill.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I was just saying that they are in alphabetical. Of course they are.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: How are they?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So i'm just trying to find you on the list
Simon Wellesley-Miller: out there that's sort of enough, but a little, but not
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if I make you a co-host and give you all of that power, See if that works
Phil Debenham: great stuff.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: No abusing it though
Phil Debenham: great responsibility.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Say what's happening here.
Phil Debenham: Can you see? Can you see my web in space if I go? Oh, I see You've gone up a level somehow.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Can I say double click where it says projects on your so cancel that and double click on project.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, do you need to do it?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What it what I just trying to think yeah on the down a bit
Simon Wellesley-Miller: on the actual file oops. Well, no don't do that. Then click back on our training.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: You back to where you were. So basically I think you've gone upper level. Oh, I see. Okay. And now it's put you back on the right level, anyway. So now, if you do upload.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: choose file.
Phil Debenham: So yeah, on the folder structure, somehow, it put you up a level every day. So I think what happened is I clicked browse, and when it comes to cloud rather than cloud projects, I see, yeah, that you
Simon Wellesley-Miller: wouldn't let you upload something onto the highest level.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which kind of makes sense so, and then press the install, button
Simon Wellesley-Miller: up the top and yellow.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There's packages, a squeeze bubble, and are required, but not installed, and then click processes.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it should.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There we go. Should stop loading a bunch of stuff in
Simon Wellesley-Miller: there we go. Yeah.
Phil Debenham: right? So I mean, appreciate that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: no worries
Okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: share screen again.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Which one are we all on that one?
Okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: right back in 5.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Hmm.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Well, there we go. Well, it's time by me.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What? You got? No, that's so, not fair.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Do you need to save, as each time as a safe button, Grace that? No, it also saves on of whatever we what's this thing called? It's called
Simon Wellesley-Miller: as you do cloud. It also says that the time you run your code, so you don't have to. You can turn it off of, or a save it. Auto
Simon Wellesley-Miller: also also saves quite nicely within our studio as well. So you don't have to save. But if I start writing code and not run it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's when the Save button is not not grayed out. So as soon as you've written some since you run some cage.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it will.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It will run hopefully. That makes sense
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Good! Good. I hope it will be back and not out Sorry playing snowmen. which I would be had it been snowing here? It's really not going here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So first of all, just going back. I don't think there was any other catch up from last time that we're all good.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we are starting on new script. So this is a bit of a blue Peter. Here's what I've prepared earlier. So this is gonna go through
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a bunch of stuff. We are going to finish here about back quarter to 2. I'm. Just then at that point, going to show you some of the sort of quarto outputs that we're going to look at in our next session.
So we're just gonna do it a little bit more advanced that wrangling and some some bits and pieces, just to sort of show you some of the extra bits that we can do. I'll then do a show off around the interactive quarter. I've just put it in the slack
Simon Wellesley-Miller: channel, the output from that. So if you want to play along at the end and have a play with all the different interactive widgets, cause that great fun. You can chuck those in there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But hopefully, next session we can go through that and a little bit more detail, and about how you can build similar reports. The the quarter example in there is still a bit rough and ready, because I only just recently built it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But just to say, you don't have to share it with all the actual our code in there, you can make it just as Standalone reports, without all the arcade
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in there, which I probably should show that version, because it will look much neat, and you have it as a completely finalized result. Anyway, that's all. By the by, before we get to all those funky widgets and stuff, we're gonna do some more wrangling because who doesn't love to wrangle.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So likewise we're going to use the tidy again. So we're going to Co. Load that in. We're also using something called Nhs our data sets which pretty much hopefully does what it says on the Tim. It is a collection of to dominize. And so just synthetic data sets, but based on Nhs our data, which is really really cool.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so that if you want to create, you know, if you, if you want some data that you want to, or a process you want to share with somebody. You can point it at these. If there is one of these data sets which is good enough for close enough to what you want.
Then you can use these data sets. It just means you don't have to share any actual real patient data, because you know we don't do that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So I am going to at the moment. Still, I've got everything here within my environment, because i'm working from one thing to the next. However.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I want to flush that and start again. I'm just checking.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So, Darren, going back to what is the difference between equals and assigned by essentially nothing
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a set. You could only do a sign by to assign stuff to an object you could do an equals to that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: just in our we keep them a separate, so that we have an assignment is when we are assigning to to an object. So an object is what we call a over a data frame a value later on, and or I can show you very, very briefly. Now, if we still got some of our initial stretch.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we can assign a plot to an object.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if I run that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and now have an object called pay. and if I call pay whoops.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it will
Simon Wellesley-Miller: hopefully today at some point, call up my plot.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if we're signing something to an an object, we use the assignment operator, that's just generally, and we could use equals, but it just becomes really really messy when you're trying to read code later on. So it's just
Simon Wellesley-Miller: generally good practice. There we go, right. Where are we so
Simon Wellesley-Miller: got something got into train hopefully that's loaded up.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There was a yellow banner that would have flushed up at the top and asked you whether you want to install all the stuff. Hopefully you clicked. Yes, and that will sort of chug through, because that takes a couple of minutes.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I've still got all my messy old data here in my environment, and we're not going to be using it for any of the stuff. We're going to go going forward. So i'm gonna flush this. So there's a little broom here which says, hover over clear objects from the workspace. So i'm gonna press that it would say, are you sure? Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And that will get rid of all my
Simon Wellesley-Miller: data from the environment. Just so that I know i'm working fresh. I'm not getting
Simon Wellesley-Miller: mixed up with with anything else if I want to. I could also get rid of all my plots. And same again, I can do a brush there, and that cleans that up.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And also likewise, if I want to, I can clear my history here
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and clean that up, just going through some of the other dots. Sorry some of the other bits within our our data here. Obviously, we have our environment here, which is obviously it contained all our data items. We've got a history
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which literally shows you everything that you've run. Just a little command within the console. It shows you the command, and obviously the outputs, and what stubborns is is going on here. But within the within the history there is absolutely literally all the stuff that you've run. Just command by command
Simon Wellesley-Miller: connections. If you've got it connected up to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: a a data warehouse, this will show you the the day a warehouse very much like if you've got this a touch to sequel management. It will show you all the tables, and you drill down into those tables before you decide to to upload them in.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And there's also something called tutorial which is really really cool. You can install a package called Learn are.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it will basically run for you through a bunch of tutorials around various different bits, and it will so tell you what to do. And then you sort of run code, etc. So that's kind of what happens up here
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Files? We've had a look. Obviously, that's just shows you what's in your folder. Obviously work on the clouds. This is our cloud folder. But if we were on the computer that would show us our our computer plots shows us our plots. Oh, I just cleaned mine, so I haven't got any in there. But obviously, if we did, they would be in there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Packages Shows you what packages you have got installed, what version, and what ones are currently running.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and you can you also use that to update and change those help? We did a quick look into that sort of help. There, there's also sort of search functions that you can do, searches.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: viewers we will come through to when we do later. So sometimes
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it's not necessary. Plot, object you might create. You might create a table, or you might create some other sort of interactive with you, T thing, and that will show within the viewer and presentation. I'm not entirely sure. What presentation does I will have to find out, because that's very deeply new down here. We've got the console.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There is a terminal if you want to use sort of more, Linux command line these stuff to talk to the terminal. But we're not gonna do that, because that's all
Simon Wellesley-Miller: linuxy stuff. And then there's something called background jobs which will come in later. So when we do installations that usually flip to, so the background jobs and gets those all going, and when we run some quarter later as well, that will also run as background jobs. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we're going to do final push. Now it's 30'clock. We're going to go until about 4,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but we will stop as far as you're concerned, about quarter to where we will just do any sort of final wrap ups of where we got to so far. And also i'll just do some show offs about
Simon Wellesley-Miller: hopefully a bit of a teaser for some of the prettier and more interesting stuff we're gonna do at the end of next when we get on to the next session. So we're gonna chug our way through this. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: first of all, we want to load in our libraries, and we're going to basically run through this as a as a bit of a chug frame. So that's
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it's also loaded in something called Nhs data sets. So within Nhs data sets there is a data set called Ae attendances. So we want to call that in, and we want to to assign it to something called data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So now, when we've called that we should have data which is 12,000 observations of 6 variables.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we can click on that and have a very quick look at what that looks like.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Always good to have a quick look just with your eyeballs.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So what we have is a time series where it's based on a time period. We've got an organization code. We've got type one to another. So I see that's where that's type. One type, two's, all type other attendances, and then we've got numbers of attendances, numbers of breaches and numbers of emissions.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So hopefully a really quite simple. They set to to look at and understand hopefully. There's nothing too confusing in that lot. But we're going to do a fair
Simon Wellesley-Miller: fair amount of stuff with it. So that was looking at it. Some of them are. We can do some really super simple things. If we want to know the names of the columns which I often use.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we can just do call names data, and it'll get this. The names of the columns.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I find that really useful then, because then I can copy that, and then feed that into another function, cause either just to remember what that called, or or whatever, or just double check what you pull through into your data, and it's just a really nice way to bring up your column names in order to use them elsewhere.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We can also look at things like if we want to find the unique data items within a variable. So if we just want to call one column, we can use the data and then dollar sign type.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Do you remember when we opened this up
Simon Wellesley-Miller: on the Little Blue Arrow. We have data. And then there's this dollar sign, and then all the different column titles. So we can basically call our data
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so type.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that will show us
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that we've got free things within our type with Number one, number 2, and other.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Just while we are looking at this data just to confirm that we've got our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: period, which is already formatted as a date. So we don't have to mess about with with changing that as a date
Simon Wellesley-Miller: just to say, we've got a factor type of organization code which we will come to later about what that means. But basically they they are ordered so that they are different, so that when we come to group them together we're not necessarily grouping on the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: string factor. But
Simon Wellesley-Miller: there's a there's a sort of layer of data underneath it, same with the type. So we've got a factor of 1, 2 and other, and automatically the data is ordering it 1, 2, and then other.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So it's. Put it in that order. And then we've got some very basic numerics for these.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we can do some relatively simple things, so we can get the range of a variable which is really really quite useful, especially if you got things for dates. So we just do range date.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it will tell us obviously the the range of the date very, very helpful, just for having a quick look. Make sure that we've got all our what our bits. We can just instantly see the structure of our data. So see the data to type. So we can just do
Simon Wellesley-Miller: str data, and that will just basically, tell us what data types we got. So again, there's pretty much produces this exact view here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but it just means we can bring it up here, so sometimes you can do some calculations, and you can somehow coerce your dates to being a number, or sometimes, when you bring in dates they don't necessarily come in as a day, and it will throw you. So it's a really quick, easy way of just
Simon Wellesley-Miller: making sure that you, the structure of your data is is coming through as a data. You, Haven't suddenly turned your numbers into characters, and then trying to order them by alphabetical order and and things like that which i'm sure we've all done in various chips of form
Simon Wellesley-Miller: summary data we've had looked at that before. So again, that just gives us a very quick eyeball of our data, so we can see our range here. We can also see that we've got obviously a bunch of organization codes, and there's a a bunch of others on there
Simon Wellesley-Miller: gives us our frequency of our type, one to some others, so that's all good to know. It gives us some means and regions and maxes also good to know that we haven't got any ma's in this data, so that that's, you know, instantly good to know, and good to double check that that's where we are.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So a few a few bits of of of cleansing and sorting out so very occasionally you get things like spaces and variable names.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: This is an absolutely crazy, common thing, if you're it's importing from excel that people will give it a really nice descriptive column name, but with lots of spaces, and it becomes really really quite hard to work with. So we're going to coerce some spaces into our data frame, and then and then put back again.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So what we want to do is rename our all code into organization Space code. So there's a rename function so very much like we've done before. So we've going to get our data, and then we're going to feed our rename function into a pipe. So we get our data
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then going to rename. And in order to put a space in in sequel, you would use square brackets in
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in, and we're gonna use back ticks. So we're going to rename, and it's backwards. Just so it's it's backwards in my head. So we give it our new name and we tell it, it's the old name. So we're gonna rename our organization code is gonna be our old code.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if we run that doesn't look like anything particularly has exciting has happened. However, now, if we just go back to our call names
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we could run that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we can now see
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we have got back to top left of your keyboard
Simon Wellesley-Miller: next to the one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Well, it is yeah cool.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So now, if we want to use that. we can, we need to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We use the we need to put organization code every time we'll have to go into back to which comes really really annoying.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So let's now rename some more of our variables into horrible things, so we can put capitals. Capital B. We can have one with our all in
Simon Wellesley-Miller: capitals, and we can also put like leading spaces in front of our data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is also a really nasty thing to do, much like visual studio, code or or spider. You can press the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in the console
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to bring back previous bits of code.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And there we go. We can see we've got this horrible, horrible, nasty set of of column names which just means it's really really horrible.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: as it says that that's now looking much more like a typical Nhs table. So what we want to do is clean all those names to make them to make them useful, so we could go through and do a rename across all of them.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: or we could call in our janitor. So we have a lovely library called janitor. So let's load that in.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that comes with a lovely function called clean names
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which I must admit is one of my, I think, when i'm writing new code it's usually library, tidy verse, second line, library, janitor, and then, later in the day, and then the next thing is clean names. So if we run
Simon Wellesley-Miller: clean names across our data set.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: then if we do our call names D. So again
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it's put it's got rid of all the trading, all the leading spaces. It's changed everything into snake sort of yeah snake case. And and there's just made it all our all our bits nice and pretty.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sorry.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Quick. Have a quick practice yourself. See if you can change breaches into number space breaches, number or number space of space breaches. So just have a quick play with that, and then see if you can convert it back again
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to just breaches, and the other thing is, oh, change all
Simon Wellesley-Miller: organization, name, organization.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, so that should be code, not name.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Excuse me, that is incorrect in the Can you change organization code back to all code?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sorry.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And also said it's kind of backwards.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry I didn't probably explain this very well. So in this example we're getting our main data set, and we're kind of over writing it, which is generally really bad practice.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's good idea to keep your main data when you load it in pure as the driven snow, so that you've always got something to roll back to. And then, if you do any wrangling do on another version until everything's all funky groovy. But keep your main data pure, so that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if you need to roll back, you don't have to load in all the data. Again, you can just go back to a version where it's. It's safe. So everything within the environment only exists within our and the environment within our within memory. You're not necessarily
Simon Wellesley-Miller: saving stuff. You're not creating stuff on a disk or or whatever, so it's not necessarily a an issue about space. The any issue about space is potentially your computer memory, if you're using really, really, really big data. But then again.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I've not had that as a. As a as a problem per say, so shouldn't shouldn't be an issue.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: not with the size of data sets we doing, but what we are doing is assigning our data. our data frame to data. So we're actually getting our data and then overwriting it with data. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: just be aware that that's what we're doing here, so that hopefully makes sense. So we want you to rename
Simon Wellesley-Miller: number of breaches.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that will be reaches.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And then, when we look at our call names.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We've got this number of breaches. Putting in spaces and stuff is quite useful when we're creating. Trying to make like human readable tables, is actually at some point, it does become quite useful to rename our columns. But obviously, while we're using our data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: not so much so let's put it back again. So just no breaches.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yes, it should be, whatever it was originally, which is all code, not all name the that's a typo on my part. Say, oh.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it's code equals.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And again, I like just copying it from down here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we should have period or code type attendances, breaches, admissions
Simon Wellesley-Miller: as our titles now.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, good!
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if not.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if you've got a major problem, you can cheat. You can just run line 7
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and line 43.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I know we'll just clean the original names and make them nice, I think.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So Let's look at a some conditionals.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we want to create a new flag
Simon Wellesley-Miller: in our data
Simon Wellesley-Miller: where we've got above 20,000 attendances.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, my goodness, what's happened there? That's weird.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There we go. We have now so
Simon Wellesley-Miller: very, very simple syntax. So we've got our data, and then we're gonna overwrite our data. I think we stop messing it out of our data in a minute, and we're gonna mutate because we want a new, a a new thing, a a new variable. And then
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we're gonna call it above 20,000,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it will be, if else so very, very simple. If else I'm sure you guys have used, if else is that it works in that box handed way. So if our attendances is is greater than equal. 20,000 then. Yes, otherwise no.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And then we can run that through, and we can look on our data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we can see now we should have a yesterday flag based on our attendances.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so that should work free.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What we can also do is a multi-part conditional, which is a bit like a case where exactly like case statement within sequel. So we can do our data, and then we can do an attendance grouping, so we can do
Simon Wellesley-Miller: where our attendances are less than 5,000, change up to give it a total of less than 5,005 to 9, 10 to 9 9 9, 15, etc., etc.,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and notes that in this instance are true
Simon Wellesley-Miller: is
Simon Wellesley-Miller: our else statement. So a case statement will basically run through each of the options, and it will trigger not the first one it meets
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so technically.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: 1,002, what 12,000 is gonna be less than 1,500, but it would always
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so. It will trigger there, I mean. Technically, it's less than 20,000, but it will. It would have already been taken away from the equation, because it will just get
Simon Wellesley-Miller: first bit that it comes to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if we run that and then have a quick look at data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we've now got some an attendance grouping based on our attendances. and we've created something across all of our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that's kind of useful.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it's not always useful to do it in that way. So in this instance we've assumed that if it's not less than 25,000, then it's over 25,000,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which could cause a problem.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So, for instance, if I if we change our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: first instance to a Ma.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so i'm changing the original data here, and if we look back on our data. Now.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I've put an an a into our attendances here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if I rerun this
Simon Wellesley-Miller: original piece of code here
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that we were using
Simon Wellesley-Miller: due to the logic of the attendances. If it's an na.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it's just gonna go, is it? An a is an a less than 5,000? No. Is n a less than 10,000. No. Is it less than 25,000 no else? It's over 25,000. So if we look at our data.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I've gone an a but it's put it in the over 25,000 grouping, which is obviously not where we want it so it's very dangerous to use the else statement in as a as a capsule, because you're always gonna get some weird edge case, which is gonna it's gonna mess you up.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which we will come to in a minute, so what we can do is be explicit about our groupings, so we can say, is it less than 5,000? Is it less than 10 blah blah blah! Is it over 25,000, then over 25,000?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: If it doesn't meet any of those creat criteria, let's change that to error does not compute.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So now, when we run this, and we look at our data
Simon Wellesley-Miller: where we've got our a and a though it's now come through
Simon Wellesley-Miller: as an does not compute grouping, which is pretty very helpful, because then we can go through and work out what we want to do with that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: However.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: this statement again does something a little bit weird. For example, this case statement fails if we've got a a result of exactly 25,000,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: because I wasn't very explicit with my greater than it equals. So i'm going to change that to 25,000
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so just to show you what that looks like in my attendances here. I've now got 25,000,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and if I rerun my case statement
Simon Wellesley-Miller: well. what we would expect to see.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and my attendance grouping it's now put my exact 25,000, as an error does not compute. But again, having that error does not compute
Simon Wellesley-Miller: er kind of a message allows you to sort of go back and go double. Confirm your your logic so over to you guys.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so gonna do a bit of a bit of a case statement. So I want you to add another column, so that will be another mutate, and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if it's a type, one return double the amount, the attendances.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: If it's a type 2 triple the amount of attendances, if it's a type. Other
Simon Wellesley-Miller: quadruple, the number of attendances, and if it's an error, return 9,999
Simon Wellesley-Miller: as the result.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So does that make sense?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, I haven't got a hit there
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so worth double checking the syntax of how that case statement works, as in case when attendance is 50,000, and then the tilde is more or less. Your then statement, if you think in a in a sequel way. So if attendance is less than 1,000, then this is your result.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So it it does work very much like a case statement in sequel.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that that should identically
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's just the syntax is all a little bit backwards instead of end. As and calling it something, you're kind of creating it within your mutate
Simon Wellesley-Miller: does help if you can smell.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: How are we doing
Simon Wellesley-Miller: any problems?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So there are potentially a couple of problems you can come out with.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: hey? Why is that given it? Why not given it a name? Have I?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay, so city me. Let's come up with some issues
Simon Wellesley-Miller: the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sorry
Simon Wellesley-Miller: When I did my mutate. I went straight into my case when and didn't give it a a column name. So when I've run it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I've gone through, and it's just given it a default column name. So that's I an issue so to give it a caller name, what are we calling it? I have no idea.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Attend multi bye. more something like
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Now, when I run it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I should have another column. Yeah, this is the other danger of changing your data on the fly in that I've still got my old column there, and I've created a new one is double equals case. Sensitive?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: No? Yes, yes, it is sorry. Yes. So yeah, equality is absolutely case. Sensitive.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Nope: so yeah, if you've got your other there, and you've put a capital O, so you of the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and run it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It will put all your others as 999, I hope. Yeah, there we go.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So yes, equality is case sensitive. So everything has to be just so. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: yeah, no worries
absolutely.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that's good. The other bit of a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: trap full of practical, hopeful, mistakes that you may have made is putting your 999 in speech marks
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which I think does something funky. Are we cool?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Is that right? Let's try. To? Remember?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay, that's fine.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What is it here?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: No, no, it's another one that does something weird.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: What was that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that we go?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Can't. Yeah, if you do, is it full speech marks like that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Hey, top quiet
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I a few per attendances times 2 in.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if you'd done
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I put these in right.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Is that where you're getting that error. Yeah, there we go.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that is looking at a string that basically is gonna pull out a string rather than attendances. So if we do.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: i'll keep that one as attendances times, for in not in quotes.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And I think we'll still get we still get the issue, or will it? No, it won't like that tool. Let's do that one incorrect. So if we did them all in quotes
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it will.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Where are we?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There we go. It will actually do the equates and right attendances times, too, because it's not pulling that through as a variable. It's treating it as a string.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is why, if you don't put this as in quotes as well, it's saying, Well, I can't add a variable to a number. I don't know what type data type. I'm gonna throw, which is why it's trying to say I can't combine a character and a number.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: You can't mix data types within a single a single thing. So that was the one to say.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: This is where it gets a little bit complicated, and you just need to make sure that you've got your data types. In fact. Look, I even put we your trends all off the same day. It's like it may, giving you hints.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So let's make sure that those are there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And what we got to remember is where we've got type, one type, 2 and other. As far as our is concerned, type one and type 2 are not numbers.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: They are kind of strings. I will just put the code into the chat. Or do you want to pay your okay to go as well?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And we see we can play Spot the spot, the issue
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that is my cage absolutely. There we go proper job. say fabulous.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that's that's really cool and hopefully just shows you, you know you could start doing bits and pieces on there so like we did before. Oh, my goodness, me, let's just get my day to tidy, because mine's in a right mess
Simon Wellesley-Miller: like we did before. Once we've created that column, or whatever we can then do other stuff to it if we if we so wished site, which is really really cool. So if we've created this new column where we have our attendances and we've
Simon Wellesley-Miller: done a grouping if we want to, then we could then filter on the that group so we could filter on our attendance group. It equals less than 5,000 rather than having to do attendances filter by
Simon Wellesley-Miller: less than 5,000. That makes sense. Hopefully, that makes sense good good. So I didn't know why we want to double our attendances and triple our attendances, but it's just to show you that you can kind of come out with a result based on something else. I think it was just a a a kind of show that you can
Simon Wellesley-Miller: start mixing up your data and doing doing things with them. So we've done grouping and summarizing before.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is kind of quite cool. But you can also do a group and mutate which is really really good at making sub to tools and currently creating data across our up groups. So probably easier to show you rather than explain. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: what we're gonna do is we've got our data, and we've got our organization code and our period. So we're going to group it by our organization codes and our period. So for each site
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and for each month
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we are going to calculate the total sum of attendances.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then we are going to divide our attendances by the total number of attendances. So basically. what that will do is group each month and each site
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and give us a percentage of attendances across the total of attention attendances for that for that grouping. So that's just have a look at what that looks like. And I've started at this point now to create new data frames as I go along.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So if we look at this data frame.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I've still got a lot of pretty things in there. So we look at our organization. Code. Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Well, if we tell me it's an organization.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah. what is going on there?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's not what we want it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Hmm. Okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I think I've added something in which I shouldn't have done.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Let's just remove where it says period.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Thanks.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So let's just remove period, so it just grouping it by each of the organizations. Now, oops not one.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And if we just have a look at our data and we look at it by organization page. So we've got all this data by grouped by the period we've now got. The total number of attendances which is our attendance is all added up for this entire
Simon Wellesley-Miller: group. So just for the this. this organization. and then we've done a
Simon Wellesley-Miller: percentage which is our attendance, is divided by the total number of a sentences. With that group you've ungroups. Now it wasn't that I've That is correct. Let's go back to the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's fine. I need to do an ungroup all right. Maybe it was type. I should have put in that what I wanted to do.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry, any rate this a couple of
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So let's look at it by organization, cave, and type.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: That's not a good one. It's. But
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so basically what it's done is taking the organization code, and it's taken all the others. It's creative. A total across all the attendances for other, for that site, which is this flat number here.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then divided by the attendances by the total to get the percentage attendance for that section.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Does that make sense?
Darren Griffiths: I'm in? Can I just ask another quick question? Sorry about this? Deliver the point? But what would be the implication of not typing the including the final on group
Simon Wellesley-Miller: clause in this. Just give us a warning. It won't. Actually do anything.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's just good practice. It's done. If we came to do something else with that data. it will it?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So yeah, it's not actually gonna change anything. It's just good practice. So it will won't change the output at all.
Darren Griffiths: Okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we then use that data set for something else where we it's it's kind of grouped in under there, so it can
Simon Wellesley-Miller: cause problems. I mean generally it doesn't, and it's very rare that it does. It's just good practice to make sure that you ungroup. So we still got. I've still got my total attendances and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: sorry. So why is that? That's very strange. Let's change it back to. Is it period? I don't know what the date is called yeah period. So I had it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that should give me.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Maybe I need to look at a different organization.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Oh, no, i's hang on. Let's just go back to the original one again. I'm not.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: How about filtering it? That's how I did it. So now
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I've done
Simon Wellesley-Miller: organization code and period. So now what it's done is added up for each month by organization code, the attendances of 1, 2, and other, I think, when I filtered it, it just made it a little bit more confusing. So now I should have. My total
Simon Wellesley-Miller: attendances will be my 25,813, plus that which is 3, 5,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: plus 8 1 3
Simon Wellesley-Miller: oops.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is my 2 8 6 6 3, so it's made a sub. It's made a total per month, and then has divided my attendances by my total per month to give me my percentage. So I can see that my type, 1, 2, and others
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that makes up 87% of my attendances for that month.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: The type 2 is made up 2.8 of the attendances, and the other made up 9.9 of the attendances. That's a better example. I was right. In the first place, I just
Simon Wellesley-Miller: yeah. Does that work? Does that make sense? So good. Sorry. I need to trust myself that I know what I'm doing occasionally. So that makes a pretty long decimal percentage. I look. I had a thing. Can you round it to one disable place?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I think we've done that already. So i'm not gonna make you around that. That was more a case of Can you go away and find a function that does round and a bit of Googling? But we've already covered the round function, and there's a big hidden there about very, very mindful about your comma, because that is quite a tricky 10, my goodness me! We are running short of time
Simon Wellesley-Miller: actually. Now let's just do that as a as a practice, because I'm just worried. We're.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: The next bit is about pivoting wider and longer, which is like converting our data shape which gets really really messy, and we're safe. That for an exciting thing to come back to in our next session, because
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that gets quite complicated. So let's just try this, so we've got a total attendances and a Herc attendance. We want to change our Perk attendance to only come back with one decimal place.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So we want to adjust our Perk attend
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to come back with one decimal place, and yes, it's really horrible about brackets and commerce.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Can you use round separately. Yes, you can.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So there's a couple of ways of doing it. You can stick around statement around this, so you do it all in one. or you can do it quite cheaply, and that you can have it as another thing, and have a perk. Attend, and then just round your perk. Attend that you've already created. So you kind of overwrite your perk, attend.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So that's just show based methods
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so that all in one method
Simon Wellesley-Miller: would be to add a round statement around
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which gets ready quite
Simon Wellesley-Miller: orange.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I've put that in. There. Is that all right now?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So I would check
Simon Wellesley-Miller: no uncle, that wrong.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: say even I mess it up. Big Time
Simon Wellesley-Miller: should have read my own name about being mindful of the comma.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: There we go. That's popped it in the right place, all potentially a way of doing it when you don't get messed up by by that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so let's just get rid of my
Simon Wellesley-Miller: round
Simon Wellesley-Miller: is to instantly every
Simon Wellesley-Miller: okay over it. With
Simon Wellesley-Miller: how many? To some places one let me go. and you could just feed it into its own sort of pipe and change it, and do it separately like that which
let's have a look at that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It comes up with the same result, I believe hopefully, maybe.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and I agree. There we go.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So horses for courses, really.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but nice to name that you can do it in various different ways to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to do it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Okay.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: i'm not gonna start getting you guys pivoting wider and longer, because that's it's really messy. So just gonna whiz through what we're gonna look at next time. So we're gonna finish off going through this workbook.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: By all means. If you're absolutely desperate, you can go through and have a look at it and be teachers PET for next time, and be super fast and and ready. I think this pivot-wide a longer bit probably does need a bit of explanation, but
Simon Wellesley-Miller: by all means, it's all commented hopefully. It'll make sense as you go along. Feel free if you really really want to. Other than that, we're beginning to look at quarter. So quarter is a fab thing where you basically
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you reading your data, you do an analysis, and then you can output
Simon Wellesley-Miller: this kind of document. What's really really nice about quarter, especially in our studio, is that you can feed in several different types of data, and also different types of wrangling, and you can mix our our and python in there. So you can actually write
Simon Wellesley-Miller: python chunks of code and get it to output into quarter. So it is really really cool and let you do really, really nice things.
So quarto is basically just a an output. I don't know you guys have done anything and mark down, you might have done. If you've done some git hubby things I don't know. So mark downs just basically a an output language.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: or it's sort of syntax method for for producing stuff.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and i'm not going to go into that massively. Now where we go for it or more later. I'm just going to show you some of the types of reports that we've got. So this this: this has got all the this, this output. So this is a standalone output. I've put it into the hints Sm
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Hsma Tanni, and that's just a standalone HTML document, and it's completely self-contained
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you can load download that and open it, and all the little interactive widgets and stuff that i'm gonna show you will work. It means that I can attach this to an email. I can email it to somebody, and they can open it. So it's not it's. You know it's like sending somebody.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you know just a document that they can use. It's all in HTML 5. So it all vendors to whatever Doc, whatever you've got open so you can open it on a phone. And even then all the interactive widgets and everything will work. It might work in a really tiny way, but they they will work
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so i'm not going to go this in great detail. I'm just going to show off. A couple of the widgets are in there, so you can
Simon Wellesley-Miller: mess about with the code, and you can put different codes in there. You can set up headings and bits and pieces, as you see. As I run through the document, there's a table of contents, and as I was through the document, it automatically shows me where I am in the document. I can also click on the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: on the code, and it will take me back to where I am within the table of contents. You can also sort of make sub headings of content. So here, where I've got Lots of sub headings you can see now is expanded to give me my sub headings within my within my document, which is also really really cool.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And so there's loads of options to mess about with these sort of things. Obviously, you can do things like, change all the the fonts and italics and strike crews, put things in lists, and do all that kind of stuff
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you can mess about with HTML Ts and change your fonts to comic sands or whatever, and put things in blocks.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: You can also make these really really nice sort of call out blocks with notes and tips and stuff.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: When you can make some clap interactive collapse of all boxes. So you know, people can click to expand it, or if they not want you to have a look, Say, that's really really good to sort of like put under a chart. If somebody wants to say, you know, if a further information go to you can insert images.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: you can insert animated gifts into your report, so they probably not a a great thing to do. You can change the span of your report. So at the moment. Obviously it's so defaulted to this middle spam. If I want to, I can make something go super wide and go across the screen.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And what's really really nice in that this bit. Now where I've got it completely across the screen. My table of contents is retreated and hidden until I go past that section, and then it will magically
Simon Wellesley-Miller: up here again. Look at that magic. So that's really cool. So that's just like some your basic formatting of your text. So the really nice thing about quarter is that you can write
Simon Wellesley-Miller: text, and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: it's it's it's both.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So basically this is an output document, and it's not a template, or we will run through it, and we look at how it works. So this is an output document. It's output into HTML, and I say, I can send this to you as a report. So it's very much about output rather than input
I've included all the our code in it, just so that you can see it, and it's here so you can potentially copy it and paste it in.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But you can hide all that, and just have it as a standardly report that somebody else can have a look at. And yeah, I'm just gonna to with for it really, really, quickly. And we go through in much, much more detail next time. So
Simon Wellesley-Miller: yeah, that's that's what that is. But I say it's it's very much about sort of your outputs. And and a report that you want to create, and some of the funky things that you can do with that.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Are we doing? Scatter catapults? I'm. Assuming that Scat plots. We'll be doing some other sort of plots and bits and pieces next time, and we'll come back to next time in a minute.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: so we can do some within our report. We can do obviously, really really basic. Yes, we can do catapults. That literally is a N. On cat cat plot which we can go into if we really really want to. But we can create some, obviously a a bog standard lunch out, and we can bring those out which is, you know, quite, quite boring. We can bring out our really really boring sort of tibbles and and produce those.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And all right, we're going to do cat plots next week.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Well, next time absolutely fine if we want to, we can make our plot next to our charts and have some text alongside. We can also put sort of plots next to each other, and have text underneath that
Simon Wellesley-Miller: refer to our chart, so that's that's again really really nice.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We can also add our code into our text. So here I've got some text.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but also
Simon Wellesley-Miller: we can also sort of run it and see that it's actually
Simon Wellesley-Miller: input, some some data itself. So today's day is the thirteenth of February, which is when I wrote this thing and I haven't updated it since so bad me. I shouldn't say to that today's date when I run. This is today's day, and and obviously that's static, as at the point of that I've run it.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then I've got something here. I've done a an English statement, and I've done a case when depending on the date of the week.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then it will spit out so you can mix and match code into into your text. So here I've got. You can pull data from data frames, such as the highest amount of attendances in our data set was 32,209, and that's pulled from the data set. That's not me typing it in that there was 32,000. I've mixed and matched the code and bring it into the data set into my report, which again makes if you actually sort of writing a report when I said out to people, you can really convert things into English, and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: people like English reports. That's that's really good, never really. Nice thing that we can do is we can have 2 plots next to each other, and we can have them on 2 different tabs, so we can like
Simon Wellesley-Miller: ping from one to another. and you can set up lots and lots of different tabs with different types of plots. So you can have the plot and the table will all various
Simon Wellesley-Miller: different things like that. So that's all quite nice. We can do various different types of tables, so we can make our tables look a little bit nicer. We can make sort of nice
Simon Wellesley-Miller: tables with indents and grouping and lines and conditional formatting, and all of that kind of stuff.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But I think where we start getting a little bit nicer is when we start making things that little bit more interactive. So we can do like we can do nice tables, and we can
Simon Wellesley-Miller: put in little bar charts and things within our tables. Knock spot lines because backgrounds evil. But we can put little sort of Mini plots and things in there. But then we start getting into the more of interactive stuff.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So here I've got my data table, and what I can do is I can click on here, and I can filter my data table
Simon Wellesley-Miller: here, and it will automatically adjust if I want to filter it to a single organization. I can filter that, for I can also turn my filters off
Simon Wellesley-Miller: if I say wish
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I can change this all to type ones, and I can just copy and so and go through my data if I want to. I could press on attendances and all of my data as I wish. So it's just giving somebody a a data table they can mess with
Simon Wellesley-Miller: at the moment. I've got it defaulted to show you 10 entries if I want to. I can expand that to show 25. So now I've got sort of a much bigger data table, and that's just expanded automatically to to fill that in. Let's go back to 10,
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and what I can do as well with my filter data. If I want to, I can press copy, and that will copy it on the clickboard. I can press Csv. And that will download a Cs first Csv version of the data as at the point I filtered it to. So at the moment it's gonna filter. If I press Csv, it will save me a copy of type ones for this period, and and and whatever here. So that's really cool. I can also save this table as a Pdf. Or or just like straight to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: print, which is quite nice. So that's just including a a a. To people for people to look at. And again I can go through, and I can click
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and see the different bits within that if I want. So that's a a nice way to show your data table. Another type of data table that you can do is sort of a reactive data table where. So this is using the same data set that we've been playing with, and
Simon Wellesley-Miller: at the moment it's sort of aggregated up to the the period, but we can then drill down to work at the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: median attendances overall in March was this, and then we could break it down by each of the different types, and if we really want to, we could drill another level and see it
Simon Wellesley-Miller: at each of the organizations, and that you can drill that. So it's again. If you've got the kind of quite nice hierarchical data it's like. It's very nice to show that top level, and then be able to drill down into individual teams or whatever. And all this stuff around the medium attendances and the sort of Max breaches and mean emissions again, is all built within the table, so not have to calculate those separately. Those are just sort of
Simon Wellesley-Miller: built within the table function, which is quite nice. So plots Plotley is quite nice. So here's a whoops.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Here's a plot that we have earlier, exactly the same plot. However, this one is now interactive, so we can sort of hover over it, and it will give us the sort of tool tips we can click on
Simon Wellesley-Miller: traces and turn them on, on and off. If we say wish, if we want to, we can click and drag across an area.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and that will zoom in to that area if we so wish. And then, if we wanted to, we could take a screenshot of that zoom, and it would. It would save that. Or we can bring that back in. We can tell it to do multi-line comparison. So now we are still comparing each of these data points across each of those areas.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And let's say we'll show you the the code for that, though, is super super fabulous. So we've already created a a plot, and then we want to convert it to. Sorry. It's very, very strange there
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to a Gg. Plot. So it's just literally one type, one line of code, and it will create a a plot.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And again we can sort of create box plots of of stuff.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And again, it's really nice if we've got all these different things that we can then do zoom in and have a look at what those individual box pots that like. We've also got some really nice hover over is where we can look at that, and it will tell us that means and our quartiles on a on a box plot just by a hover over, which is, which is really nice
Simon Wellesley-Miller: getting into the just because you can doesn't mean you should area
Simon Wellesley-Miller: very mindful of time. Oh, no, it's not going to that one yet.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We can
Simon Wellesley-Miller: do animated plots I the time
Simon Wellesley-Miller: that's not coming through very smoothly on my screen. I guess that's because I've got 500 things running, but have a go at. You have a go with it on your own, and it should come free, really nice and smooth, and it goes all wibbly wobbly across the screen practice. And you've got this little slider, then, which you can go forwards
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and back into time, if you say wish.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: which is nice. Another crazy thing you can do if you really really want to, is based on that data that we had. We could map our admissions, breaches, and attendances on a scatter plot and make that a 3D plot which we can then
Simon Wellesley-Miller: zoom around and spin around on at making me dizzy, just looking at it. And you can sort of zoom in and out and do all manner of crazy things
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and sort of spin it around some more. Not entirely sure. Why, but, hey, Why not
Simon Wellesley-Miller: say it, please? I'll make 3D graphs and send those out, but you can, and some of those quite useful. Another really good thing, for if you got Time Series is something called Digraphs, which allows you to sort of zoom into a specific area of a a a time series, if you say wished
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Doesn't really explain it very well here, but I've got a little one, and that's just that. Give me a a rolling window for medium, so I can change that to 3, and that will just sort of smooth the data on the fly to show me what my
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Ro new region.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Sorry am I smooth
Simon Wellesley-Miller: data. Looks like not gonna go into that more. Now you can do nice little funky survey plots. So do you like stuff, and you can do these, like strongly agree, Discreet type plots that are really quite easy to to come out with.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We can do tree maps, which is like an alternative to up to a price chart, so we can look at our our H one and our R. H. 4, and we can see our proportion of attendances by one to another.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But this is also interactive as well. So if we click on our our H one that will expand out, and then we can look at our our H one in much more detail, and then we can sort of go back a level if we so wish, and then click on our H. 4 and see what that looks like
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and get back. Obviously, this is on a really simple example. You can set it up so you can have hierarchies within hierarchies within hierarchies. So if you want to look at comparisons of types across different things at that becomes really easy, and obviously that's much nicer than trying to do the same on a on a pie chart.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Blah blah blah! If you want to do something like show Oops
Simon Wellesley-Miller: pathways through a system. Really nice way of doing that is to sort of a a dendogram. And again, this is also built on the fly. So we can look at our base data, and then we can expand out. So in our K 9, what proportion went to one to another.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then, if we say, wish, we can then sort of work out from those where that's attendances, breaches, or whatever. And you can click, and you can play on those I love playing with these because it's very pretty, so you can kind of
Simon Wellesley-Miller: really good for sort of mapping pathways. And so showing thing. Yeah, how do I open this in my browser literally just open it in anything that's not Internet explorer. You should probably have to download it from the
Simon Wellesley-Miller: from this from the slack and then open it, and it will just open.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and you can play with all of these bits. We can do like funky heat maps. So this is showing measles, and this is when they introduce the vaccine, the measles vaccine. So it's. Obviously, each of these is the individual country. This is definitely one where this sort of zoom in comes in handy, so we can sort of zoom into areas
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and see what impact it had in these areas. So this is numbers of cases as a heat map over time.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then this is where they introduce the vaccine, and we can see instantly that sort of drop off.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and we've also got these sort of like side bars of additional charts as well, which again, out of all of hover overable, which is really really nice, we can make plotly
Simon Wellesley-Miller: plots where we can. Basically, instead of having them all on one chart, we can. We can source Cop go from one to another and create little drop down so you can choose which site you want to do.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We can. We can make maps with leaflets
Simon Wellesley-Miller: just a very, very simple one here. Yes, he is basically. Spinning around just because there was an option in the code. And I didn't know what it said it. Where was it?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Where is it. Yeah, there was an option for spin, and I was like, what what does that mean? And it says, spin. It's true. So I thought, let's see what that does, and spin, and, as you can see, it makes the little icon spin which is completely useless. But we can. We can zoom in and out on our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: icon are the wide and span the same syntax as in Mark Mark down there. The syntax is slightly different than our mark down.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: but we can sort of click and drag our thing. We can also have different layers on our app, so we can sort of turn them on and off as they wish.
We need you there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: We can create word clouds. Say 2
Simon Wellesley-Miller: to get cancel that because there's a lot of stuff in there, so it's a little word cloud there which is based off some some data we feed in. And this is again, it's all also interactive. So you can sort of hold her over and see what your frequencies are for each of your words. So that's quite nice.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Hopefully, you can work out what the the original book that I stole that from all the codes in there about, You know. I think you've done some text processing you probably have with down about how to remove, stop words and various different bits and pieces.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: You can create something called mermaid diagrams. This isn't part of our this is part of Quatro, but allows you to make really, really quite nice. So flow chart some bits and pieces in a really relatively simple way.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So you can do very simple. Just want to know the decisions and outputs, or you can make these much, much more sort of complex type stuff in there.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: or there is something called gruff. These networks as well, which also allows you to make a flash. I've not explored that one so well, because I like mermaid so much. Looks like it does a very similar sort of thing.
and then I think finally we got our pivot table, which I think is one of my favorite little widgets, where you can give it a data set and give it a a kind of a a really nice sort of pivot table, where you can sort of hand out your data to your
Simon Wellesley-Miller: your customers, and they can have a little bit of a play of it in a in a pivot tablely way, but hopefully not so not so dangerous, so you can. At the moment. I've got all code and type. If i'm me, I can click and drag that, and it will change that to type. If I wanted to, I could bring in my period.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then it would show it in a in a wider format that I can scroll across and have a look, but i'm not going to if I want to. I can then filter this down and remove the type 2 s if I wanted to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: rather than account, I could change that to the median of
Simon Wellesley-Miller: attendances. So one of my big bug bears in excel is that you can't do a meeting in a pivot table, whereas this just does which is nice at the moment. Obviously, we've got it in a table here, but maybe we don't want it in a table. Maybe I want it in a bar chart.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and it should. If it's not
Simon Wellesley-Miller: yeah, we can.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It will convert it into a little bar chart for me, and it does all manner of different things. There's there's loads of options. We could do that all heat map, if needs to be, anyway. And all of that is basically on one line of code there which creates this widget which you can and play with. So we will go through some more wrangling. I think we're going to run for you. How to do Spc: charts.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I'm gonna run through how this report runs and and works, and there's sort of decade available to to do that, how to do some funky outputs, and probably if you've got any sort of specific bits and pieces that you want us to cover.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Ping me in the slack, and I have a look at it next week, and i'll see if there's anything specifically we need to develop and go on to.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: So next week we will not. Not. Next week I think it's 2 weeks we'll go free. Some more advanced wrangling and bits and pieces Finish off that worksheet. We'll run through some of this output, you stuff because it's really nice to have a really nice sort of output of whatever you're producing, and if you're going to put it into
Simon Wellesley-Miller: some sort of bi tool or something, we're cover where today, for more information and next steps, if you want to learn more about our
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and yeah, and then we just have a any other questions cool. Yeah. Any questions before I drop off for today.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: or comments, or anything.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Death. These silence.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: And now doesn't
Simon Wellesley-Miller: do we need to do the work from today for next session?
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Do you want homework, I don't know. I guess if you go, can run through the rest of that document the the code.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I think that might be helpful, and then we can run through it. If there's any questions or queries, or if anybody got stuck.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: I think each of the to each of the bits from there on in our self contained. So long as you've run the data at the top, and remember to call some whatever it is, all code you should be able to just run each of the separate sections on their own and and have a play with them.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: But yeah, we can go through. So yeah, if you if you want to do that homework
Simon Wellesley-Miller: and then put in the chat or put in the in the smack. If there's any extra bits that you want us to cover. I guess that will give us a bit more time to do other bits if you want to do other bits
right. I need to
Simon Wellesley-Miller: get and do some work.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Right, let's stop recording, so you can all start swearing at
Simon Wellesley-Miller: It's not fun.
Sarah H: I'm done
Simon Wellesley-Miller: no worries.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Thanks, Simon. No problem.
Rachel: Thank you. Bye, bye.
Nathan Roberts: thanks very much.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Much better than that rubbish prices.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: Yeah, if I everybody has to get back down, it's like Dan. What we meant. Oh.
sygal.amitay: bye.
Simon Wellesley-Miller: this
Nathan Roberts: a grade
Simon Wellesley-Miller: perfect. Dan would be very happy, right? All right. I'm off. Thank you very much. Guys.